
===============================================================================
📄 DOCUMENT: CH2019-08-04 BRG HOA ByLaws
📅 EXTRACTED: Improved PDF Converter
📍 SOURCE: CH2019-08-04 BRG HOA ByLaws.pdf
===============================================================================

=== PAGE 2 ===
** DECLARATION OF COVENANTS AND RESTRICTIONS
 **
, FOR
**
BOCA RIDGE GLEN
 **
THIS DECLARATION made this __ day of ______ , 1983, by Ketay Enterprises, Inc., a Florida corporation (the 11Developer 11 which
hereby declares that the real property described in Article II herein which is owned by Developer (hereinafter ref erred to as "Boca Ridge Glen 11 is and
shall be held, transferred, sold, conveyed, and occupied subject to the
covenants, . restrictions, easements, charges and liens (sometimes herein referred to as "covenants and restrictions") set forth below.
**
ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS
 **
The following words when used in this Declaration and all its exhibits (unless the context otherwise requires) shall have the following meanings:
(a) "Association" - Boca Ridge Glen Homeowners' Association, Inc., a Florida corporation not for profit, its successors and assigns.
(b) "Common Areas" - The property described in Exhibit 11B11 attached i hereto and made a part hereof, together with any and all improvements from
time to time erected on such property, including without limitation walkways, parking facilities, lakes, ponds, canals and other watercourses, open spaces,
private streets, sidewalks, driveways, street lighting, entrance features and
landscaping, but excluding any public or private utility installations thereon.
If additional real property is brought under the provisions hereo_f by recorded Supplemental Declaration pursuant to Article II, then the Common Areas shall
include the portion or portions of the additional real property that may be designated to be Common Areas in such Supplemental Declaration.
(c) "Developer" - Ketay Enterprises, Inc., a Florida corporation, its successors and assigns if such successor or assignee acquires the undeveloped
portion of Boca Ridge Glen from the Developer for the purpose of development l, and is designated as such by Developer.
(d) "Lot" - Any lot, unit or othe:r parcel with any and all improvements thereon, in Boca Ridge Glen platted in the Public .Records of Palm Beach
County, Florida, on which a residential structure could be constructed whether t or not one has been constructed.
(e) "Owner" - The record owner, whether one or more persons or
entities, of the fee simple title to any Lot, but excluding those having such interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation.
(f) "Member" - An Owner who is a member of the Association as pro vided for in Article III, Section 1 hereof.
(g) "The Properties" - · All of such properties and additions thereto (which additional properties may or may not be contiguous to the real prop
erty described in Article II herein), as are subject to this Declaration or any Supplemental Declaration under the provisions of Article II hereof.
**
ARTICLE II
 **
PROPERTY SUBJECT TO THIS DECLARATION:

ADDITIONS THERETO, DELETIONS THEREFROM

Section 1. Legal Description. The real property which is, and shall be held, transferred, sold, conveyed, demised and occupied subject to this
Declaration is located in Palm Beach County, Florida and is more particularly described as follows:

=== PAGE 3 ===
See Exhibit _" A" attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Section 2. Developer's Right to Add Additional Property or Withdraw Property. Developer may from time to time bring additional real property
now owned or hereafter acquired by Developer (which may or may not be contiguous to the real property described in Exhibit "A" hereof) under the
provisions hereof. Developer may also withdraw portions of the land herein above described. No property ~hall be withdrawn from this Declaration
unless such property is dedicated to another association or governmental authority. Neither the addition or withdrawal of lands as aforesaid shall,
without the joinder or consent of a majority of the Members of the Associa tion, materially increase the prorata share of Association expenses payable by
the Owners of property subject to this Declaration prior to such addition or
remaining subject hereto after such withdrawal. The addition or withdrawal of lands as aforesaid shall be made and evidenced by filing in the Public
Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, a Supplementary Declaration with respect to the lands to be added or withdrawn. Developer reserves the right
to so amend and supplement this Declaration without the consent or joinder of the Association or any Owner or mortgagee of any of the Properties.
Nothing herein contained shall obligate the Developer to submit additional real property to the provisions of this Declaration. The submission of addi
tional real property to the provisions of this Declaration shall be at the sole discretion of the Developer.
Section 3. Merger or Consolidation. Upon a merger or consolidation of the Association with any other association as provided in its articles of incor
poration, its properties, rights and obligations may, by operation of law, be transferred to another surviving or consolidated association or, alternatively,
the properties, rights and obligations of another association may, by operat1on of law, be added to the properties, rights and obligations of the Association
or another association as a surviving corporation pursuant to a merger. The surviving or consolidated association may administer the covenants and restric
tions established by this Declaration within the Properties together with the
covenants and restrictions established upon any other property as one scheme.
No such merger or consolidation, however, shall effect any revocation, change or addition to the covenants and restrictions established by this Declaration
within the Properties.
Section 4. Platting and Subdivision Restrictions. The Developer shall
be entitled at any time and from time to time, to plat or re plat all or pe;irt of the Properties, and to file subdivision restrictions or admendments thereto
with respect to any undeveloped portions of the Properties. Any portion of the plat oi; plats of the Properties containing open spaces may not be vacated
in whole or in part unless the entire plat is vacated.
**
ARTICLE III

MEMBERSHIP AND VOTING RIGHTS IN THE ASSOCIATION
 **
Section 1. Membership . . Every person or entity who is a record fee simple Owner of a Lot, including the Developer at all times as long as it owns
any part of the Property subject to this Declaration, shaU be a Member of the
Association, provided that any such person or entity hold such interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation shall not be a Member
of the Associatfon. Membership shall be appurtenant to, and may not be separated from ownership of any Lot which is subject to assessment.
Section 2. Voting Rights. The Association shall have two (2) classes of voting membership:
Class A Class A Members shall be all of the Owners, as defined in Section 1, with the exception of the Developer. Class A Members shall
be entitled to one vote for each Lot in which they hold . the interest required for membership by Section 1. When more than one person
holds such interest or interests in any ·Lot, all such persons shall be Members, and the vote for such Lot shall be exercised by one such
Member as specified in the Articles of Incorporation of the Association -2-

=== PAGE 4 ===
but in no event shall more than one vote be cast with respect to any such Lot.
Class B The Class · B Member shall be the Developer. The Class B Member shall be entitled to one vote for each Lot in which it holds the
interest required for membership by Section 1, provided, however, that notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein, the
Developer shall have the right to elect a majority or the Board of Direc tors of the Association until such time as the Developer no longer holds
the title to any Lot within the Properties or to any additiona l property which may have been brought under the provisions hereof by recorded
Supplemental Declarations, as set forth in Article II hereof. Within six (6) months from the date the Developer conveys title to the last Lot
which its owns in the Properties, the Association shall conduct a turn over meeting for the purpose of electing directors by the Cb~!: .". '.
Members.
Section 3. Suspension of Votiffi Rights. Notwithstanding the provisions hereof, the Association shall havee right to suspend any Member's voting
right (other than the right of the Developer) for any period of during which any assessment or installment thereof shall remain unpaid for more than thirty
(30) days after the due date for the payment thereof.
**
ARTICLE IV

PROPER TY IN THE COMMON AREAS
 **
Section 1. Ownership. Developer may retain the legal title to the
Common Areas so long as it owns fee simple title to at least one Lot in the
Properties . On or before conveyance by Developer of the last Lot which it owns in the Properties (or sooner at the Developer's option), the Developer,
or its successors and assigns, shall convey and transfer the record fee simple ..,,.--- title to the Common Areas to the Association and the Association shall accept
such conveyance, subject to taxes for the year of conveyance and to mort- gages, restrictions, limitations, conditions, reservations and easements of
record. Commencing with the date this Declaration is recorded, the Associa- tion shall be responsible for the maintenance and administration of the Common
Areas in a continuous and satisfactory manner and for the payment of taxes assessed against the Common Areas and any improvements and personal prop-
erty thereon accruing from and after the date of such recordation. Such taxes shall be prorated between the Developer and the Association as of the
date of such recordation. Developer shall have the right from time to time to enter upon the Common Areas during periods of construction upon adjacent
properties and for the purpose of construction of any facilities on the Common Areas that Developer elects to build.
Section 2. Members' Easements. Each Member of the Association and
each tenant, guest and invitee of such Member shall have a permanent and
perpetual easement for ingress and egress for pedestrian and vehicular traffic over and across the walkways, private streets, sidewalks and driveways from
time to time laid out on the Common Areas for use in common with all other Members, their tenants, guests and invitees. The portion of the Common
Areas not used, from time to · time, for walkways, private streets, sidewalks or driveways shall be for the common use and enjoyment of the Members of
the Association and each Member shall have a permanent and perpetual ease ment for the use of such portion of such lands as common open space in such
manner as may be regulated by the Association. The foregoing easements are subject to the following:
(a) The right and duty of the Association to levy assessments against each Lot for the purpose of maintaining the Common Areas in com
pliance with the provisions of this Declaration and with any restric tions on the plat or plats of the Properties from time to time
recorded.
(b) The right of the Association to suspend the voting rights of an Owner and right of an Owner to use the Common Areas (except the
private streets, sidewalks and driveways from time to time located -3-

=== PAGE 5 ===
on the Common Areas) for any period during which any assessment against hi.s Lot remains unpaid for more than thirty (30) days after
the due date for the payment thereof, .and for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days for any infraction of its lawfully adopted
and published rules and regulations.
(c) The right of the Association to adopt and enforce rules and regula tions governing the use of the Common Areas and all facilities at
any time situated thereon.
(d) The right of the Developer or the Association to dedicate or transfer all or any part of the Common Areas to any public agency, authority
or utility for such purposes and upon such conditions as may be agreed to by the Members provided, however, that no such dedi
cation or transfer by the Association shall be effective l.!!'l.!~~~
approved by the Developer so long as the Developer owns at least one Lot within the Property and by seventy-five (75%) percent of
the Members present and voting at a regular or special meeting of Members duly called and regularly conducted in accordance with the
Bylaws.
The right of an Owner to the use and enjoyment of the Common Areas and facilities thereon shall extend to the members of his immediate family who
reside with him, subject to the regulations from time to time adopted by the
Association in its lawfully adopted and published rules and regulations. The easements provided in this Section 2 shall be appurtenant to and shall pass
with the title to each Lot.
Section 3. Utility Easements. Public • utilities may be installed under ground in the Common Areas when necessary for the service of the Properties
or additional lands for which Developer holds an option to purchase, but all use of utility easements shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions
of this Declaration.
Section 4. Public Easements. Fire, police, health, sanitation and other public service personnel and vehicles shall have a perpetual, non-exclusive
easement for ingress and egress over and across the Common Areas _.
Section 5. Easement for Unintentional and Non-Negligent Encroachments.
If any other building or improvement shall encroach upon any portion of the
Common Areas or upon an easement by reason of original construction or by the non-purposeful or non-negligent act of Developer or any other owner of
such building or improvement, then an easement for such encroachment shall
exist so long as the encroachment exists .
. Section 6. Reciprocal Easements. There shall be reciprocal appurtenant easements between each Lot upon which a villa or townhouse is constructed,
the maintenance, repair and reconstruction of any party wall or walls and any non-party wall or walls, for lateral and subjacent support; for roofs and
eaves and for replacements thereof; and for encroachments caused by the
unwillful placement, settling or shifting of any improvements constructed, reconstructed or altered thereon in accordance with the terms hereof. The
extent of said easements for lateral and subjacent support and for overhangs shall be that reasonably necessary to effectuate the purposes thereof; and
said easements of encroachment shall extend to a distance of not more than six (6) feet, as measured from any point on the common boundary along a line
perpendicular to such boundary at such point. Notwithstanding the fore going, in no event shall there by any easement for overhangs or encroach
ments if the same is caused by willfull misconduct on the part of an Owner, his successor or assigns.
Section 7. Additional Easments. The Developer (during any period in which the Developer has any ownership interest in the Properties) and the
Association shall each have the right to grant such additional electric, tele phone, gas, sprinkler, irrigation, cable television or other utility easements,
and to relocate any existing utility easement in any portion of the Properties and to grant access easements and to relocate 'any existing access easements
in any portion of the Properties, or any portion thereof, or for the general health or welfare of the Owners or for the purpose of carrying out any pro-
-4-

=== PAGE 6 ===
v1s1ons of this Declaration; provided that such easements or the relocation of existing easements will not prevent or unreasonably interfere with the use of
the Lots for dwelling purposes.
If a residence is constructed within eight (8) feet of the side lot line of any Lot, in order to allow the Owner of any such Residence to maintain the
wall facing the adjoinin .g lot, each Owner of such Residence shall have an easement over the adi~ihing Lot, with the right of ingress and egress during
reasonable times of day, for the purpose of maintaining and repairing the wall facing the adjoining Lot. The easement created in this Section shall be per
manent, perpetual and exclusive to the Owners involved.
Section· 7. Maintenance of Common Areas.
(a) The Association shall at all times maintain in good repair, ar.~ ~~=!!
replace as often as necessary, any and all improvements situated on the Common Areas (upon completion · of construction by Developer),
including, but not limited to, all recreational facilities, landscaping, sprinkler pipes and systems, paving, drainage structures, lakes,
ponds, canals and other watercourses and the banks, shorelines and boundaries thereof, walkways, common parking facilities, pri
vate streets, sidewalks, driveways, street lighting fixtures and
appurtenances, entrance features and other structures, except public utilities, all such work to be done as ordered by the Board
of Directors. The Common Areas shall include the grass areas to the edge of the pavement of Boca Ridge Drive and Boca Ridge
Drive South. Maintenance of the street lighting fixtures shall
include the fixtures within the Common Areas and shall further extend to payment for electricity consumed in the illumination of
such lights. The Developer or the Association may repair, change, replace or restore the walls and fences that are on any of the Lots
or Common Areas within the Properties. All work pursuant to this Section and all expenses hereunder shall be paid for by the Asso
ciation through assessments imposed in accordance with Article V hereof. Such assessments shall be against all Lots equally; pro
vided, however, that the cost of any maintenance, repair or replace ment caused by the negligent conduct of a Member or by the failure
of a Member to comply with lawfully adopted rules and regulations shall be levied as a special assessment against such Member. No
Owner may waive or otherwise escape liability for the assessments for such maintenance by non-use of the Common Areas or abandon
ment of his right to use the Common Areas. The Association, its successors and assigns, shall have a perpetual, non-exclusive
easement for ingress and egress over, upon and across all portions of the Properties and to excavate thereon in connection with the
maintenance of sprinkler pipes and systems to the extent necessary for the performance of the work to be performed pursuant to this
Section; provided, however, that the party causing any such exca vations restores disturbed areas to the condition thereof immediately
prior to such excavations.
(b) The Developer intends to construct on the Common Areas a club house, swimming pool, tennis court and security gate, and the
construction, size and design of which shall be within the Devel oper's sole discretion subject to such rules and regulations con
cerning the use thereof, as the Developer determines.
Section 8. Party Walls.
(a) Each wall which is built as a part of the original construction of a villa and placed on the dividing line between the villas shall con
stitute a party wall; and, to the extent not inconsistent with the
provisions of these covenants and restrictions, the general rules of the laws of the State of Florida regarding party wa1ls and liability
for property damage due to negligence or willful acts or omissions shall apply thereto.
(b) The cost of reasonable repair and maintenance of a party wall shall
be shared by the Owners who make use of the wall in proportion to such use.
-5-

=== PAGE 7 ===
(c) If a party wall is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty and if such destruction or damage is not covered by insurance, any
Owner who has used the party wall may restore it, and if the other .
Owners thereafter make use of the party wall, they shall contribute to the cost of restoration thereof in proportion to their use without
prejudice, however, to the right of any such Owners to call for a larger contribution from the others under any rule of law regarding
liability for negligent or willful acts or omrnissions.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of these convenants and restric tions, an Owner who, by any negligent or willful act causes the
party wall to be exposed to the elements, shall bear the whole cost of furnishing the necessary protection against such elements.
(e) The right of any Owner to contribution from any other Owner hereunder shall be appurtenant to the land and shall pass to such
Owner's successors in title.
(f) In the event of any dispute ~rising concern ing a party wall, or
under these provisions, each Owner shall choose one arbitrator, and such arbitrators shc:!11c hoose one additional arbitrator, and the
decision shall be by a majority of all the arbitrators and said de cision shall be enforcement in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Should any party refuse to appoint an arbitrator within ten (10)
days after written request therefor, the Association shaH select an arbritrator for the refusing Owner.
(g) In the event an Owner shall fail to effect reasonable repair and
maintenance of a party wall pursuant hereto, in a manner satis factory to the Board of Directors of the Association, then the
Association, after approval by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Board of Directors, shall have the right through its agents and employees,
to enter upon said Lot and to repair, maintain, and restore the
party wall. The cost involved therein shall be added to and become part of the assessment to which such Lot is subject. Said assess
men.t shall be enforced by the Association pursuant hereto. ·
**
ARTICLE V
 **
ASSOCIATION--
**
COVENANT FOR MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENTS
 **
Section 1. Creation of the Lien and Personal Obligation for the Assess ments. The Developer, for each Lot owned by it within the Properties,
hereby covenants, and each Owner of any Lot, by acceptance of a deed therefor, whether or not it shall be so expressed in any such deed or other
conveyance, shall be deemed to covenant and agree to pay to the Association annual assessments or charges for the maintenanc::e of the Common Areas as
provided in Article IV hereof, and the Exterior Finishing and Lawn Mainte nance as provided · in Sections 3 and 4 of this Article V, including such rea
sonable reserves as the Association may deem necessary, and special assess ments as provided in Section 3 and 4 hereof, such assessments to be fixed,
established and collected from time to time as hereinafter provided. The annual and special assessments, · together with such interest thereon and costs
of collection thereof as hereinafter provided, shall be a charge on the land
and shall be a continuing lien upon the Lot against which such assessment is made. Each such assessment, together with such interest thereon and costs
of collection hereof as hereinafter provided, shall also be the personal obliga tion of the person who was the Owner of such Lot at the time when the
assessment fell due. Except as otherwise provided in Section 7 of Article IV, and in Sections 3 and 4 of this Article V, all assessments, both regular and
special, shall be equally assessed against all Lots within the Properties.
Section 2. Purpose of Assessments. The assessments levied by the
Association shall be used exclusively for maintenance of the Common Areas as provided in Article IV hereof, for Exterior Finishing as provided in Section 3
hereof, for Lawn Maintenance as provided in Section 4 hereof, for Capital Improvements as provided in Section 5 hereof and. to promote the health,
-6-

=== PAGE 8 ===
safety, welfare, and recreational opportunities of the Members of the Associa tion and their families residing with them, and their guests and tenants,
including but not limited to expenses in connection with security and any and
all guardhouses and gates located on roadways leading into or away from the
Properties.
Section 3. Exterior Finishing. The paint, coating, stain and other exterior finishing colors on all buildings shall be maintained by the Associa
tion as originally installed by the Developer without prior approval of the
Architectural Control Board, but prior approval by the Architectural Control Board shall be necessary before any such exterior finishing color is changed.
The Board of Directors shall determine the need for any exterior finishing under this Section 3. The Board shall estimate the cost of any such exterior
finishing far each year and shall fix the assessments for each year, but said Board shall, thereafter, make such adjustment with the Owners as is ~~':"'?~
sary, including special assessments if necessary, to reflect the actual cost of such finishing. Such assessments shall be against all Lots equally ( except
for maintenance specifically requested by an Owner); provided, however, that the cost of any maintenance caused by the negligent conduct of an Owner or
by the failure of such Owner to comply with the lawfully adopted rules and
regulations of the Association, shall be levied as a special assessment against such Owner.
Section 4. Lawn Maintenance. So long as title to the Common Areas is held by the Association, the Association shall be responsible for maintenance,
lawn care and irrigation of those areas. The Common Areas shall include the
grass areas to the edge of the pavement of Boca Ridge Drive and Boca Ridge Drive South. In addition, the Association shall cut the grass arid provide
irrigation to the yards of each of the Lots by way of a master sprinkler system to be installed during the development of Boca Ridge Glen. The
Board of Directors of the Association shall estimate the cost of any such] ,...!:2.Y.t-
maintenance for each year and shall fix the assessments for each year said B d shall make such ad ·ustmen · ·
necessa to re- ect the actual cost o such maintenance. Such assessments or maintenance s a e against a ots equa y except for maintenance
specifically requested by an Owner); provided, however, that the cost of any maintenance caused by the negligent conduct of an Owner or by the failure of
such Owner to comply with the lawfully adopted rules and regulations of the
Association, shall be levied as a special assessment against such Owner. In addition, an Owner may be specially assessed for any damage or injury caused
by the negligent conduct of such Owner to any easement areas granted to provide access to perform the maintenance. It is the intention hereof that
the Association shall perform only routine maintenance as described in this Section 4.
For th·e purpose solely of performing the maintenance authorized by Sec tions 3 and ·4, the Association, through its duly authorized agents, employees
or independent contractors, shall have the right to enter upon any Lot at reasonable hours of any day. Each Owner hereby grants to the Association,
its duly authorized agents, employees or independent contractors such ease ments for ingress and egress, across the Lots and through improvements
constructed upon the Lots, as may be reasonably necessary to effect and
perform and the required maintenance aforementioned. In addition, the
Owner of the adjoining property (not within the Properties) may grant the
Association, its duly authorized a.gents, employees, or independent contrac tors, such easements for ingress and egress across its properties to effect
and perform the exterior maintenance aforementioned. In such event, the
Association shall indemnify any such adjoining property Owner for any damage or injury to the easement areas caused by the use thereof for access to
perform the exterior maintenance. In the event an Owner is on vacation or
will not be present to permit entry onto his Lot for the exterior maintenance .
aforementioned, said Owner shall deposit his house key with the Association to permit entry thereon.
Section 5. Capital Improvements. Funds necessary for capital improve ments relating to the Common Areas may be levied as special assessments by
the Association, upon approval by a majority of. the Board of Directors of the
Association and upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) vote of Members voting at a meeting or by ballot as may be provided in the Bylaws of the Association.
-7-

=== PAGE 9 ===
Section 6. Date of Commencement of Annual Assessments; Due Dates.
The annual assessments provided for in this Article V shall commence on the
date or dates (which shall be the first day of a month) fixed by the Board of Directors of the Association to be the date of commencement. The annual
assessments shall be payable in advance in monthly installments.
The amount of the annual assessment may be changed, at any time, by said Board from that originally stipulated herein, or from any other assess
ment that is in the future adopted. The assessment shaJl be for the calendar year, but the amount of the annual assessment to be levied during the period
shorter than a full calendar year shall be a proration to the number of ·months remaining in ~uch calendar year.
The due date of any special assessment for capital improvements under Section 5 hereof shall be fixed_ in the resolution of the Board of Directors
authorizing such assessment.
Section 7. Duties of the Board of Directors. Except for the · initial assessments specified in Section 6 above, the Board of Directors of the Assoc
iation shall fix the date of commencement and the amount of the assessment against each Lot at least thirty (30)" days in advance of the commencement of
the assessment period and shall, at that time, prepare a roster of the Lots and assessments applicable thereto which shall be kept in the office of the
Association and shall be open to inspection by any Owner. Written notice of the assessment shall thereupon be sent to every Owner subject thereto.
The Association shall, upon demand at any time, furnish to any Owner liable for an assessment a certificate in writing signed by an officer of the
Association, setting forth whether such assessment has been paid as to the
Lot owned by the Owner making request therefor. Such certificate shall be concJusive evidence of payment of any assessment to the Association therein
stated to have been paid.
The Association, through the action of its Board of Directors, shall have the powers to enter into an agreement or agreements from time to time with
one or more persons, firms or corporations for management ~ervices. The Association shall have all other powers as provided in its Articles of Incor
poration. The Board of Directors shall also purchase officers' and directors' liability insurance and cause all officers and directors having fiscal respons
ibilities to be bonded, as the Board may deem necessary.
The Association shall also collect from all Owners the annual, special and
individual assessments from the Boca Ridge Property Owners Association, Inc.
and shall pay said Association all sums collected.
Section 8. Collection of Assessment; Effect of Non..;Payment of Assessment;
The Personal Obligation of the Owner; The Lien; Remedies of the Association.
If the assessments are not paid on the date when due (being the date speci fied in Section 6 hereof), then such assessments shall become delinquent and
shall, together with such interest thereon and the cost of collection thereof as herein provided, thereupon become a continuing lien on the property which
shall bind such property · in the hands of the Owner, his heirs, devisees, personal representatives, successors and assigns. Any individual who ac
quires title to a Lot upon the death of an Owner or by operation of law shall
be personally liable for unpaid assessments with respect of such Lot. In any voluntary conveyance, the grantee shall be jointly and severally liable with
the grantor for all unpaid assessments made prior to the time of such vol untary conveyance, without prejudice to the rights of the grantee to recover
from the Gran tor the amounts paid by the grantee therefor.
_ If the assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days after the due date, the assessment shall bear interest from the date when due at the rate of
eighteen (18%) percent per annum and the Association may bring an action at law against the Owner personally obligated to pay the same or may record a
claim of lien against the property on which the assessment is unpaid and may
foreclose the lien against the property on whic;:h the assessment is unpaid, in like manner as a foreclosure of a mortgage on real property, or pursue one
-8-

=== PAGE 10 ===
or more of such remedies at the same time or successively, and there shall be added to the amount of such assessment, attorneys' fees and costs of prepar
ing and filing the claim of lien and the complaint in such action, and in the
event a judgment is obtained, such judgment shall include interest on the
assessment as above provided and a reasonable attorneys' fee to be fixed by the court together with the costs of the action, and the Association shall be
entitled to attorneys' fees in conn~cti?n with any appeal of any such action.
It shall be the legal duty and responsibility of the Association to enforce payment of the assessments hereunder.
Section 9. Subordination of the Lien to Mortgages. The lien of the
assessment provided for in this Article V shall be subordinate to the lien of any institutional first mortgage recorded prior to the recordation of a claim of
lien for unpaid assessments. An institutional lender means a bank, savings and loan association, insurance company, mortgage company, real estate
investment trust, pension fund, pension trust, or any other generally recog nized institutional-type lender or its loan correspondent, or any agency of
the United States Government or any lender providing funds to the Developer.
. Section 10. Effect on Developer. Notwithstanding any provision tha may be contained to the contrary in this Declaration, for so long as Developer
is the Owner of any Lot, the Developer shall not be liable for assessments against such Lot, provided that Developer funds any deficit in operating
expenses of the Association. Developer may, at any time, commence paying such assessments as to all Lots that it owns and thereby automatically termin
ate its obligation to fund deficits in the operating expenses of the Association.
Section 11. Exempt Property. The B'oard of Directors shall have the
right to exempt property subject to this Declaration from the assessments, charges and liens created herein if such property is used (and as long as it
is used) for any· of the following purposes:
(a) Any eas·ement or other interest therein dedicated and accepted by a public authority and devoted to public use or to Boca Ridge Prop
erty Owners Association, Inc. and Boca Ridge Park Condominium Association, Inc.
(b) All Common Areas as defined in Article I hereof.
(c) All properties exempt from ad valorem taxation by the laws of the
State of Florida, to the extent agreed to by the Association.
Notwithstanding any provisions herein, no land devoted to dwelling use shall be exempted from said assessments, charges or liens.
Section 12. Annual Budget. By a majority vote of the Board of Direco tors, the Board shall adopt an annual budget for the subsequent fiscal year
which shall provide for allocation of expenses in such a manner that the
obligations imposed by this Declaration must be met.
Section 13. Trust Funds. . The portion of all regular assessments collec ted by the Association as reserves for future expenses, and the entire amount
of all special assessments, shall be held by the Association in trust for the
Owners of all Lots, as their interests may appear.
Section 14. Termination of the Association. In the event the Associa tion is terminated or shall no longer continue to exist for any reason whatso
ever, the Boca Ridge Property Owners Association, Inc. will maintain all Common Areas and is hereby authorized to assess all Owners for the costs of
such maintenance.
**
ARTICLE VI

GENERAL RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
 **
Section 1. Applicability . The provisions of this Article VI shall be applicable to all Lots· situated within the Properties.
-9-

=== PAGE 11 ===
Section 2. Land Use. No Lot shall be used except for residential purposes. No business, service repair or maintenance for the general public
or Owners shall be allowed on any Lot on the Common Areas at any time.
Temporary uses for model homes, parking lots, or sales offices shall be permitted for the Developer.
Section 3. Change in Buildings. No Owner shall make or permit any structural modification or alteration of any building except with the prior
written consent of the Architectural Control Board (hereinafter identified) or
its successor and such consent may be withheld if, in the sole discretion of the party denying the same, it appears that such structural modification or
alteration would affect or in any manner endanger other dwelling units. No building shall be demolished or removed without the prior wirtten consent of
the Architectural Control Board, and the prior written consent of the Owner of the immediately adjoining building. The reconstruction shall be in the
same location on the property and shall not exceed the size of the original construction.
Section 4. Building Location. Buildings shall be located in conformance with the Zoning Code of the County of Palm Beach, Florida and any specific
zoning approvals thereunder, or as originally constructed on a Lot by Devel oper. Whenever a variance or special exception as to building location or
other ite{Il has been granted by the authority designated to do so under the
Zoning Code, said variance or special exception is hereby adopted as an amendment to this Section and any future variance or special exception as to
building location or other item shall constitute an amendment of this Section.
Section 5. Easements. Easements for drainage, installation and mainte nance of utilities and for ingress and egress are reserved as shown on the
recorded plats of the Properties. Within these easements no s~ucture, plant ing or other material may be placed or permitted to remain that will interfere
with vehicular traffic or prevent maintenance of utilities. Public utility companies servicing the Properties and the Association, and their successors
and ass igns, shall have a perpetual easement for the installation and mainte nance of water lines, sprinkler lines, sanitary sewers, storm drains, gas
lines, electric and telephone lines, cables and conduits, including television cables and conduits and such other installations as may be required or neces
sary to provide maintenance and utility services to the Lots or the Common Areas, under and through the utility easements as shown on the plats and
under and through such portions of the rear of each Lot beyond the build ings, as such buildings may from time to time be located.· Any damage
caused to pavement, driveways, drainage structures, sidewalks, other struc tures, or landscaping in the installation and maintenance of such utilities shall
be promptly restored and repaired by the utility whose installation or mainte nance caused the damage. All utilities within the subdivisions, whether in
streets, rights of way or utility easements, shall be installed and maintained underground, provided, however, that" water an9 sewer treatment facilities
and control panels for utilities may be installed and majntained above ground.
No weeds, underbrush or other unsightly growths shall be permitted to grow or remain upon any Lot, and no refuse pile or unsightly objects shall be
allowed to be placed or suffered to remain anywhere thereon; and in the
event that the Owner shall fail or refuse to keep the demised premises free of weeds, underbrush or refuse piles or othef unsightly growths or objects,
then the Association may enter upon said premises and remove the same at the expense of the Owner, and such entry shall not be deemed a trespass.
All garbage or trash must be placed in designated trash receptacles. Pro vided however, that any of the Properties not yet developed by Developer
shall be maintained in a clean condition, but shall not be expected to be maintained in a manicured condition.
-10-

=== PAGE 12 ===
Section 7. Temporary Structures. No structure of a temporary char acter, or trailer, tent, mobile home or recreational vehicle shall be permitted
on any Lot either temporarily or permanently. No gas tank, gas container, or gas cylinder (except gas tanks, gas container or gas cylinders as placed
by the Developer in connection with the installation of swimming pools or
barbeques) shall be permitted to be placed on or about the outside of any house or- any ancillary building, and all gas tanks, gas containers and gas
cylinders (except gas tanks, gas containers or gas cylinders as placed by the
Developer in connection, with the installation of swimming pools or barbeques)
shall be installed underground in every instance where gas is used. In the
alternative, gas containers may be placed above ground if enclosed on all sides by a decorative safety wall approved by the Architectural Control Board
referred to in Section 12 hereof.
Section 8. Signs. No "for rent", "for sale" or other sign of an~· !::::::
shall be displayed to the public view on the Properties.
Section 9. Oil and Mining Operations. No oil drilling, oil development operations, oil refining, quarrying or mining operations of any kind shall be
permitted · upon or in the Properties nor shall oil wells, tanks, tunnels, min eral excavations or shafts be permitted upon or in the Properties. No derrick
or other structure designed for us in boring for oil or natural gas shall be erected, maintained or permitted upon any portion of the land subject to
these restrictions.
Section 10. Pets, Livestock and Poultry. No animals, livestock, or
poultry of any kind shall be raised, bred or kept on any Lot, except that dogs weighing less than thirty (30) pounds, cats, or other household pets
may be kept, subject to rules and regulations of the Association, provided that they are not kept, bred or maintained for any commercial purpose, and
provided that they do not become a nuisance or annoyance to any neighbor.
No dogs or other pets shall be permitted to have excretions on any Lot, o anywhere else within the Properties except in locations designated by the
Association in its rules and regulations. In no event shall an Owner or any other person allow a dog anywhere on the Properties unless carried or held
on a leash not to exceed six (~) feet.
Section 11. Visibil\;; at Intersections. No obstruction to visibility at street intersections shall e permitted.
Section 12. Architectural Control. No buildin·g, wall, fence, or other structure or improvement of any nature shall be erected, placed or altered on
any Lot until the construction plans and specifications and a plan showing the
location of the structure and landscaping as may be required by_ the Architec tural Control Board have approved in writing by the Architectural Control
Board named below. Each building, wall, fence, or other structure or im provement of any nature, together with the landscaping, shall be erected,
placed or altered upon the premises only in accordance with the plans and
specifications and plot plan so approved. Refusal of approval of plans, specifications and plot plan, or any of them, may be based on any ground,
including purely aesthetic grounds. Any change in the exterior appearance of any building, wall, fence, or other structure or improvements, and any
change in the appearance of the landscaping, shall be deemed an alteration requiring approval. The Architectural Control Board, which shall consist of
three (3) members, who need not be members of the Association, shall have . the power to promulgate such rules and regulations as its deems necessary to
carry out the provisions and intent of this Paragraph. The initial rules and
regulations of the Architectural Control Board are set forth on Exhibit "C" attached hereto and made a part hereof. The Architectural Control Board
shall be composed of: Walter Ketay, Christopher Anderson and Susan Bush and the address of said Board shall be 9400 Glades Road, Boca Raton, Florida
33433.
A majority of the Architectural Control Board may take any action the Board is empowered to take, may designate a representative to act for the Board,
and may employ personnel and consultants to act for · it. In the event of death, disability or resignation of any memb.er of the Board, the remaining
members shall have full authority to designate a successor. The members of the Board shall not be entitled to any compensation for services performed
-11-

=== PAGE 13 ===
pursuant to this Section. When all residential dwelling units proposed by the
Developer to be constructed within the Properties have been conveyed to Owners, the members of the Architectural Control Board shall be designated
by the directors of the Association.
Section 13. Landscaping. The landscaping, including, without limita tion, the trees, shrubs, lawns, flower beds, walkways and ground elevations,
shall be maintained in accordance with this Declaration, as originally installed by Developer, unless the prior approval for any substantial change is obtained
from the Architectural Control Board. No tree or shrub, the trunk of which exceeds two (2) inches in diameter, shall be cut down, destroyed or removed
from a Lot without the prior express written consent of the Architectural Control Board. No artificial grass, plants or other artificial vegetation shall
be placed or maintained upon the exterior portion of any Lot, unless approved by the Architectural Control Board.
Section 14. Commercial Trucks, Trailers, Campers and Boats. Nq trucks or commercial vehicles, .campers, mobile homes, motor homes, boats,
house trailers, boat trailers, or trailers of every other description shall be permitted to be parked or to be stored at any place on any Lot, except only
during the periods of approved construction on said Lot, and except that they may be stored within garages or behind patio walls if not visible from
the streets. The term "commercial vehicle" shall include all automobiles, trucks and vehicular equipment including station wagons, which bear signs or
shall be printed on the same of some reference to any commercial ·undertaking or enterprise, or vehicles of more than -six (6) feet in height. This prohibi
tion of parking shall not apply to temporary parking of trucks and commercial vehicles, such as for pick-up, delivery, and the other cpmmercial services.
If Developer shall elect to include a storage or parking area for such vehicles within the Properties, all such vehicles, boats, etc. must be stored within
such area or within the garage located on a Lot.
Section 15. Fences. No fence, wall or other structure shall be erected in the front yard, back yard, or side yard setback areas, except as origin
ally installed by Developer, and except any approved by the Architectural Control Board as above provided.
Section 16. Garbage and Trash Disposal. No garbage, refuse, trash or
rubbish shall be deposited on any Lot except in a walled-in area; provided, however, that the requirements from time to time of the County of Palm Beach
for disposal or collection shall be complied with. All equipment for the storage or disposal of such material shall be kept in a clean and s~nitary condition.
Section 17. No Drying Areas. No clothing, laundry or wash shall be aired or dried on any portion of any Lot.
Section 18. Buff er Zone. Developer may install landscaping and berms, where Developer, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. The areas in
which said landscaping and berms are installed shall be owned and maintained by the Association and shall not be conveyed with any Lot within the Prop
erties. No improvements or landscaping shall be permitted within said areas without the prior written consent of the Association.
Section 19. Drainage. . No changes in elevations of property subject to these restrictions shall be made which will cause undue hardship to adjoining
property with respect to natural runoff of rain water.
Section 20. Burial of Pipe and Tanks. No water pipe, gas pipe, sewer pipe, drainage pipe or storage tank shall be installed or maintained on the
Common Areas above the surface of the ground, except hoses and movable pipes used for irrigation purposes.
Section 21. Underground Wires. No lines or wires for communication or
the transmission of current shall be constructed, placed, or permitted to be placed within the Common Areas unless the same shall be protected cables;
any of said lines or wires which are not located in buildings shall be con structed or placed and maintained undergroun~.
-12-

=== PAGE 14 ===
Section 22. Certain Restrictions, Rules and Regulations. The following restrictions, rules and regulations shall be adhered to by each Owner, lessee,
his guests and visitors:
(a) All Owners and lessees of Lots in the Properties shall abide by this Declaration, the Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws and all Rules
and Regulations as they are adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Owners shall, at all times, obey the rules and
regulations and shall use their best efforts to see that they are faithfully observed by their families, guests, invitees, servants,
lessees and persons over whom they exercise control and super vision. In order to change or amend any Rule or Regulation or
adopt new rules and regulations, the same must be approved by a majority of the Board of Directors. No vote of the membership
shall be required. A change, amendment or adoption of a r~!: ::::
regulation shall not require an amendment to the Declaration or the
Bylaws.
**
ARTICLE VII
 **
SALES ACTIVITY AND DEVELOPER'S RIGHTS

Until the Developer · has completed, sold and conveyed all of the Lots within the Properties, neither the Owners, nor the Association nor their use
of the Common Areas shall interfere with the completion of the contemplated improvements and the sale of Lots. The Developer (or its duly authorized
agents or assigns) may make such use of the unsold Lots and the Common Areas as may facilitate such completion and sale including, but not· limited to,
the maintenance of sales offices for the showing of the property and display of signs, billboards, placards and visual promotional materials. The Developer
shall have the right to use common parking spaces, if any, located on the
Common Areas for prospective purchasers and such other parties as Developer determines. Developer reserves the inalienable right to complete the develop
ment of the Properties, including the Common Areas, notwithstanding that a Purchaser of any Lot has closed title to his Lot.
**
ARTICLE VIII
 **
ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS,

COVENANTS, RULES AND REGULATIONS

Section 1. Compliance by Owners. Every Owner shall comply with the
restrictions and covenants set forth herein and any and all rules and regu lations from time to time adopted by the Board of Directors of the Association.
Section 2. Enforcement. Failure of the Owner to comply with such restrictions, covenants, or rules and regulations shall be grounds for action
which may include , without limitati ·on, an action to recover sums due for
damages, injunctive relief, or any combination thereof, including costs and
attorneys' fees incurred in bringing such actions, and if necessary, costs and
attorneys' fees for appeallate review. The Association shall have the right to suspend voting rights and use of Common Areas (except the private streets,
sidewalks and driveways from time to time located on the Common Areas).
Section 3. Fines. In addition to all other remedies, in the sole discre tion of the Board of Directors, a fine or fines may be imposed upon an Owner
for failure of an Owner, his family, guests, invitees, tenants, or employees to comply with any covenant, restriction, rule or regulation contained herein
or promulgat_ed pursuant hereto provided the following procedures are adhered to:
(a) Notice: The Association shall notify the Owner of the infraction or
infractions. Included in the notice shall be the date and time of the next Board of Directors meeting at which time the Owner shall
be afforded the opportunity to present reasons why a fine or fines should not be imposed.
-13-

=== PAGE 15 ===
(b) Hearing: The matter of noncompliance shall be presented to the
Board of Directors at such meeting of the Board and the Board shall hear reasons why penalties should not be imposed. A written
decision of the Board of Directors shall be furnished to the Owner no later than twenty-one (21) days after the conclusion of the said
meeting of the Board.
(c Appeal: Any Owner aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Directors as to a noncompliance may file a written request with the
Board for an appeal of such decision. Such written request must
be filed within seven (7) days after the furnishing of such decision to the Owner charged with any matter of noncompliance. n appe s
committee shall be appointed by the Board within seve (7) ~:iays after the filing of such request for appeal consisting of three· (3)
non-interested Members of the Association who are neither officers nor Board members. The said appeals committee will meet and file a ·
written determination of the matter and serve copies on both the
Board and the Owner. In no case shall the appeals committee's findings be exclusive of any other right either party may have;
however, the Board may elect to review its decision in the light of the findings of the appeals committee.
(d) Penalties: The Board of Directors may impose special assessments against the Lot owned by the Owner as follows:
(i) First noncompliance or violation: a fine not in excess of Fifty ( $50. 00) Dollars.
(ii) Second noncompliance or violation: a fine not is excess of One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars.
(iii) Third noncompliance or violation: a fine not is excess of Two Hundred ($200.00) Dollars.
(iv) Fourth and subsequent instances of noncompliance or violation:
a fine not is excess of Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars.
(v) Payment of Fines: Fines shall be paid no later than thirty (30) days after notice of the imposition or assessment thereof.
(vi) ColJection of Fines: Fines shall be treated as an assessment otherwise due to the Association.
(vii) Application of Fines: All monies received from fines shall be allocated as determined by the Board of Directors.
(viii) Non-exclusive Remedy: The imposition of fines pursuant hereto shall not be construed to be an exclusive right or
remedy, and the right to impose such fines shall exist in addition to all other rights and remedies. to which the Associa
tion may be otherwise legally en titled; provided, however, that any fine paid by the off ending Owner shall be deducted from
or offset against any damages that the Association may other wise be entitled to recover by law from such Owner.
**
ARTICLE IX

TURNOVER
 **
Section 1. Time of Turnover. The turnover of the Association by the
Developer shall occur at the time as specified in Article III Section 2 hereof.
Section 2. Procedure of Calling Turnover Meeting. No more than forty five (45) days and no less than thirty (30) days prior to the turnover meet
ing, the Association shall notify in writing all Class A Members of the date of the turnover meeting and purpose of it, which is the election of a new Board
of Directors of the Association. · -14-

=== PAGE 16 ===
Section 3. Procedure for Meeting. The procedure for the election and
turnover meeting shall be · conducted in accordance with the most recent revision of Robert's Rules of Order. l
**
ARTICLE X

GENERAL PROVISIONS
 **
Section 1. Duration. The covenants, conditions and restrictions of this Declaration shall run with and bind the Properties, and shall inure to the
benefit of and be enforceable by the Association, the Developer and any Owner, their respective legal representatives, heirs, successors, and assigns,
for an initial period to expire on the thirtieth (30th) anniversary of the date of recordation of the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions of
Boca Ridge Glen. Upon the expiration of said initial period, this Declaration shall be automatically renewed and extended for successive ten (10) year
periods. The number of ten (10) year renewal periods hereunder shall be unlimited with this Declaration being automatically renewed and entended upon
the expiration· of each ten (10) year renewal period for an additional ten (10)
year period; provided, however, that there shall 'be no renewal or extension of this Declaration if during the last year of the initial period, or during the
last year of any subsequent ten (10) year renewal period, three-fourths (3/4)
of the votes cast at a duly held meetin9 of Members of the Association vote in favor of determining this Declaration at the end of its then current term. It
shall be required that written notice of any meeting at which such proposal to terminate this Declaration is to be considered, setting forth the fact that such
a proposal will be considered, shall be given at -least forty-five (45) days in advance of said meeting. In the event that the Association votes to terminate
this Declaration, the President and Secretary of the Association shall execute a certificate which shall set forth the resolution of termination adopted by the
Association, the date of the meeting of the Association at which such resolu tion was aaopted, the date that notice of such meeting was given, the total
number of votes of Members of the Association, the total number of votes required to constitute a quorum at such meeting of the Association, the
number of votes necessary to adopt a resolution terminating this Declaration, the total number of votes cast in favor of such resolution, and the total
number of votes cast against ·such resolution. Said certificate shall be re corded in the Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, and may be
relied upon for the correctness of the facts contained therein as they relate to the termination of this Declaration.
Section 2. Notice. Any notice required to be sent to any Owner under the provisions of this Declaration shall be deemed to have been prop
erly sent when personally delivered or mailed, postpaid, to the last known address of the person who appears as Member or Owner on the records of the
Association at the time of such mailing.
Section 3. Enforcement. Enforcement of these covenants and
restrictions shall be by any proceeding provided herein or by any proceeding at law or in equity against any person or persons violating or attempting to
violate any covenant or restriction, either to restrain violation or to recover damages, and against the property to enforce any lien created by these
covenants and restrictions. Any failure by the Developer, the Association or
any Owner to enforce any covenant or restriction herein contained shall in no event be deemed a waiver of the right to do so thereafter.
Section 4. Severability. Invalidation of any one or more of the cove nants, restrictions or provisions of this Declaration by judgment or court
order shall in no way affect any other covenant, restriction or provision hereof and such other covenants, restrictions and provisions are hereby
declared to be severable and shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Captions. The captions used in this Declaration are inserted solely as a matter of convenience and shall not be relied upon or used in
construing the effect or meaning of the text of this Declara _tion.
Section 6. Limitations. So long as the Developer is in control of the
Association and is pursuing the development of the Properties, the Association -15-

=== PAGE 17 ===
may take no action whatsoever in opposition to the development plan of the
Properties or to any changes proposed thereto by the Developer.
Section 7. Context. Whenever the context so requires, any pro noun used herein shall be deemed to mean the corresponding masculine, f emi
inine or neuter form thereof and the singular form of any nouns and pro nouns herein shall be deemed to mean the corresponding plural form thereof
and vice versa.
Section 8. No Implied Waiver. The failure of Developer, the Associa tion, the Board of Directors or any Owner to object to an Owner's or other
party's failure to comply with any covenant, restriction or provision contained herein shall in no event be deemed a waiver of any such covenant, restriction
or provision.
Section 9. Execution of Documents. The plan for the development of the Property may require from time to time the execution of certain documents
required by Palm Beach County. If and to the extent that said documents require the joinder of Owners, the Developer by its duly authorized officers
may, as the agent or attorney-in-fact for the Owners, execute, acknowledge and deliver such documents and the Owners, by virtue of their acceptance of
deeds, irrevocably nominate, constitute and appoint the Developer, through its duly authorized officers, as their proper and legal attorney-in-fact for
such purpose. Said appointment is coupled with an interest and _is therefore irrevocable. ·
Section 10. Conflicts. In the event of any inconsistency between this Declaration and the Articles of ·Incorporation and the Bylaws of the Associa
tion, the provisions of this Declaration shall supersede, govern and control.
Section 11. Developer Payments. Upon the demand of the Developer, the Association shall refund to the Developer any refundable payments or
deposits made by the Developer to third parties in connection with the devel opment of the Property. By example, and not by way of limitation, the De
veloper shall, upon demand, be reimbursed by the Association for refundable payments made to Florida Power & Light Company. Upon its receipt of such
reimbursement from the Association, the Developer shall assign to the Associa tion with recourse any of its rights to •future repayments from the third party
to whom the deposit or refundable payment was made.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions has been executed by Developer on the day and year first above set forth.

WITNESSES: DEVELOPER:

KETAY ENTERPRISES, INC.,

a Florida corporation By:
-=E=L...,,,L...,,I...,,,O'""'T=T=--=K-=E=T=A..,,.-:-,Y=-,---=p-r-es--,i,,dr-e-n-t-

(CORPORATE SEAL)
**
ST AT E OF FLORIDA
 **
:SS
**
COUNTY OF PALM BEACH
 **
Before me personally appeared Elliott Ketay, as President of Ketay Enterprises, Inc., to me well known and known to me to be the individual
described in and who executed the foregoing instrument as President of said corporation, and he acknowledged to and before me that he executed such
-16-

=== PAGE 18 ===
instrument as such President of said corporation and that the seal affixed to the foregoing instrument is the corporate seal of said corporation and that it
was affixed to said Jnstrument by due and regular corporate authority, and
that said instrument is the free act and deed of said corporation.
WITNESS my hand and official seal this day of
1983.
My Commission Expires:
**
NOTARY PUBLIC
 **
State of Florida at Large -17-

=== PAGE 19 ===
EXHIBIT "A"
**
TO DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIONS AND

PROTECTIVE COVENANTS FOR

BOCA RIDGE GLEN
 **
The legal description of the property submitted to the scheme of this Declaration is :
(Description to be included upon completion of final Survey).

=== PAGE 20 ===
EXHIBIT "B
**
TO DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIONS AND

PROTECTIVE COVENANTS FOR

BOCA RIDGE GLEN
 **
The legal description of the Common Areas is:
(Description to be included upon completion of final Survey) .

=== PAGE 21 ===
EXHIBIT "C"
**
TO DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIONS AND

PROTECTIVE COVENANTS FOR

BOCA RIDGE GLEN
 **
Rules and Regulations of the Architectural Control Board of Boca Ridge Glen:

1. Any Owner who desires to construct an improvement or structure of any

kind on his Lot shall submit two complete sets of plans and specifications and samples of proposed building materials to the Architectural Control
Board.

2. All exterior building materials shall be real and not artificial; the exter

iors shall be consistent with the same adopted by the Developer.

3. All fixed games and play structures shall be located behind the Resi

dences.

4. No metal cyclone fences are permitted. All walls shall be concrete block

and stucco, with wood trim, if desired.

5. No window or wall air conditioning units are permitted.

6. All mailboxes or receptacles for the delivery of newspapers, magazines or

mail shall be approved by the · Board prior to installation of any Lot.

7. Ex_cept when placed in front for pick-up, no garbage container shall be

visible from the street.

=== PAGE 22 ===
ARTICLES OF INCORPOB,ATION

BOCA RIDGE GLEN HOMEOWNERS'A SSOCIATION, INC.

The undersigned subscriber~, desiring to form a corporation not for profit under Chapter 617 of the Florida Statutes, hereby
adopt the following Articles of Incorporation:
**
ARTICLE I

NAME
 **
The name of the corporation shall be BOCA RIDGE GLEN HOME OWNERS' ASSOCIATION, INC. For convenience, the corporation is
hereinafter referred to as the "Association".
**
ARTICLE II

DEFINITIONS
 **
Each term used herein which is defj.ned in the Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions for BOCA RIDGE GLEN recorded or to be
recorded among the Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida (the "Declaration") shall have the same meaning or definition
when used herein as the meaning or definition ascribed thereto in the Declaration.
**
ARTICLE III

PURPOSES AND POWERS
 **
The objects and purposes of the Association are to own, maintain and administer the common areas and to oversee uniformly
maintained exterior surfaces or residences, walls and fences as well as the lots or units within that certain residential commun
ity known as BOCA RIDGE GLEN situate in Palm Beach County, Florida, pursuant to and· in accordance with the Declaration; to
administer and enforce the covenants and restrictions created by the Declaration, as same may be amended from time to time; to
assess, levy, collect and disburse the assessments and charges, both general and special, provided for in the Declaration; to ·
promote the recreation, health, safety and welfare the resi dents of the said community; and to perform and exercise all of
the rights and duties of the Association under the Declaration.

=== PAGE 23 ===
The Association is not organized for profit and no part of the net earnings, if any, shall inure to the benefit of any
member or individual person, firm or corporation.
The Association shall have the power:

A. To contract for the · management of the Association and

to delegate to the party with whom such contract has been entered the powers and duties of the Association except those which
require specific approval of the Board of Directors or Members.

B. The Association shall have all of the common law and

statutory powers of a corporation not for profit which are not in conflict with the terms of these Articles and the Declaration.
The Association shall also have all of the powers necessry to implement the purposes of the Association.
**
ARTICLE IV

MEMBERS
 **
Section 1. Membership.

A. Every person or entity who is a record owner of a fee

or undivided fee interest in any lot or unit which is subject by covenants of record to assessment by the Association shall be a
member of the Assoc1.ation, provided that any such person or
entity who holds such interest merely as security for the per- formance or an obligation shall not be a member.

B. Change in membership will be established by recording

the Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, a deed or other instrument establishing record fee title to such real property
and by delivering to the Association a certified copy of such instrument. In the event that a certified copy of said instru-
ment is not delivered to the Association, said owner shall become a Member, but shall not be entitled to the voting privileges
established by this Declaration.
Section 2. Voting Rights. The Association shall have two (2) classes of voting membership:
Class A Class A Members shall be all those owners as defined in Section 1: with the exception of the
Developer. Class A Members shall be entitled to -2-

=== PAGE 24 ===
one vote for each lot or unit in which they hold the interests required for membership by Section

1. When more than one person holds such interest

or interests in any lot or unit, all such persons shall be Members, but the vote for such lot or
unit shall be exercised only by that one Member as shall be designated in a written instrument,
executed by or on behalf of any record owner of such
Association. In no event shall more than one vote be cast with respect to any lot or unit. Any such
written instrument designating one of several persons holding such interests in any ,one lot or
unit as the person entitled to cast tQe vote for
such lot or unit may be ~xecuted by any one record owner of such interest in such Lot without regard
to whether the person executing such written designation is or is not the voting Member desig-
nated therein. In the event of the filing of conflicting written designations with respect to
any lo~ or unit, neither written designation shall
be effective. Under such circumstances, ' the
filing with the Secretary of the Association of a written instrument, duly executed by or on behalf
of all of the record owners of the entire fee interest in such lot or unit, designating one of
them as the person entitled to cast the vote for
such lot or unit shall be a necessary condition precedent to the right to cast such vote.
Class B The Class B Member shall be the Developer. The Class B Member shall be entitled to one vote for
each Lot in which it holds the interest required for membership in Section 1, provided, however,
that notwithstanding ~my provision to the con trary, the Developer shall have the right to elect
-3-

=== PAGE 25 ===
a majority of the Board of Directors of the
Association until such time as the Developer, no longer holds the title to any lot or unit within
the Properties or to any additional property which may have been brought under the provisions of the
Declaration by ~ecorded supplemental declaration.
The Association shall have the right to suspend any Member's right to vote ( other than the right of the Developer) for any
period during which any assessment levied by the Association against such Member' s Lot shall remain unpaid for more than
thirty (30 )' days ·after the due date for the payment thereof.
Section 3. Meetings of Members. The Bylaws of the Associa tion shall provide for annual meetings of Members, and may make
provision for regular and special meetings of Members in addition to the annual meetings. The presence ~t any meeting of Memhers,
of Members entitled to casteirty (3~ shall constitute a quorum for the transac-
business. c::::::=;'----~-
**
ARTICLE V

CORPORATE EXISTENCE
 **
The corportion shall have perpetual existence.
**
ARTICLE VI

DIRECTORS
 **
Section 1. Management by Directors. The property, business and affairs of the Association shall be managed by a Board of
Directors, which shall consist of as many persons as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine but not less than
three ( 3) nor more than nine { 9) persons. A majority ·of the
directors in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Bylaws shall provide for meetings of directors,
including annual meetings.
Section 2. Original Board of Directors. The names and
addresses of the first Board of Directors of the Association, who shall hold office until the first a~ual meeting of Members and
until qualified successors are duly elected and have taken office, shall be as follows:
-4-

=== PAGE 26 ===
Walter Ketay 9400 Glades Road, Boca Raton, Florida 33433 iii~ !ill ¼Ali~ 9400 Glades Road, Boca Raton, Florida 33433
Susan Bush 9400 Glades Road, Boca Raton, Florida 33433 Section 3. Election of Members of Board of Directors.
Except for the first Board of Directors, directors shall be elected by the Members of the Association at the annual meeting
of the member.ship as provided by the Bylaws of the Association, and the Bylaws may provide for the method of voting in the elec-
tion and for removal from office of directors. All directors shall be Members of the Association except that such requirement
shall not apply to the first Board of Directors nor to directors appointed or designated by the Developer.
Section 4. Duration of Office. Persons elected to the
Board of Directors shall hold office u.n.t il . they resign or until the next succeeding annual meeting of Members, and thereafter
until qualified successors are duly elected and have taken office.
Section 5. Vacancies. If a director elected by the general membership shall for any reason cease to be a director, the
remaining directors so elected may elect a successor to fill the
. vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The Developer shall have the unqualified right to designate a successor to fill
the vacancy created if a director designated or appointed by the
Developer shall resign or for any other reason cease to be a director.
**
ARTICLE VII

OFFICERS
 **
Section 1. Officers. The Association shall have a Presi- dent, a Vice President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer, and such
other officers and assistant officers and agents as the Board of Directors may from time to time deem desirable consistent with
the Bylaws of the Association.
Section 2. Election and Appointment of Officers. The offi cers of the Association, in accordance with any applicable pro
-5-

=== PAGE 27 ===
of the Bylaws, shall be elected .by the Board of Directors for terms of one year and uptil qualified successors are duly
elected and have taken office. The Bylaws may provide for the
method of voting in the election, for the removal from office of officers, for filling vacancies, and for the duties of the
officers. The President and all other· officers may or may not be of the Association. If the office of President shall
become vacant for any reason, or if the President shall be unable pr unavailable · to act, the Vice President shall automatically
succeed to the office or perform its duties and exercise its powers. If any office other than that of the President shall
become vacant for any reason, the Board of Directors may e~ect or
appoint an individual to fill such vacancy. The same·person may
hold two offices provided, however, that the offices of President and Vice President shall not be held __. by the same · person,_ nor
shall the offices of President and Secretary be held by the same person.
Section 3. First Officers. The names and addresses of the
first officers of the Association, who shall hold office until the first election of officers by the Board of Directors and
until successors are duly elected and have taken.office shall be as follows:
**
OFFICE NAME ADDRESS
 **
President Walter Ketay 9400 Glades Road Boca Raton, Florida 33433
-- - Vice President/ I~~~~ ! !let 9400 Glades Road
Treasurer Boca Raton, Florida 33433 Secretary Susan .Bush 9400 Glades Road
Boca Raton, Florida 33433
**
ARTICLE VIII

BYLAWS
 **
The Board · of Directors ·shall adopt Bylaws consistent with these Articles of Incorporation. Such Bylaws may be altered,
amended or repealed by the membership in the manner set forth in the Bylaws.
-6-

=== PAGE 28 ===
** ARTICLE IX

AMENDMENTS
 **
Amendments to these Articles of Incorporation shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors and
the affirmative vote of the Members of the Association who have the right to vote two-thirds of all the votes of the entire
piembership; provided, however, that ( a) no amendment shall make any change in the qualifications for membership nor the voting
rights of the Members without the written approval or affirmative vote of all Members of the Association, (b) these Articles shall
not be amended in any manner without the prior written consent of the Dev·eloper to such amendment for so long as the Developer is
the Owner of any lot or unit, and (c) these Articles shall not be .amended in any manner which conflicts with the terms, covenants
and provisions contained in the Declaration. A copy of each amendment to these Articles shall be recorded among the Public
Records of Palm Beach County, Florida.
**
ARTICLE X
 **
INDEIVmIFICATIONO F OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS Every director and every officer of the Association shall be
indemnified by the Association against all expenses and liabil ities, including legal fees, reasonably incurred by or imposed
upon such person in connection with any proceeding or any settle ment thereof to which such person may be a party or may become
involved by reason of being or having been a director or officer of the Association, whether or not a director or officer at the
time such expenses are incurred, except in such cases wherein the
director or officer is adjudged guilty of willful misfeasance or
malfeasance in the performance of his duty; provided that in the
event of a settlement, the indemnification provided for herein shall apply only if and when the Board o; Dire.ctors approves such
settlement and reimbursement as being in the best interest of the
Association. ·The foregoing right of indemnification shall be in addition to .and not exclusive of any and all right of indemnifi
cation to which such director or officer may be entitled under statute or common law.
-7-

=== PAGE 29 ===
ARTICLE XI~
**
TRANSACTIONS IN WHICH DIRECTORS

OR OFFICERS ARE INTERESTED
 **
No contract or transaction between the Associaton and one or
of its directors or officers, or between the association and
any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organi zation in which one or more of its directors or officers are
st,irectors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be invalid, void or voidable solely for such reason, or solely
because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board or committee thereof which authorized
the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes counted for such purpose. No director or officer of the
Association shall incur liability by reason of the fact that he is or may be interested in any such contract or transaction.
Interested directors may be counted in determining the pre sence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a
commi~tee which authorized the contract or transaction.
**
ARTICLE XII

SUBSCRIBERS
 **
The names and address of the subscribers to these Articles of Incorporation are:
**
NAME ADDRESS
 **
Walter Ketay 9400 Glades Road Boca Raton, Florida 33433
.V i . .L!'"■=II!-•- ~itl'J# f'l liJ.t, .J .• I · I. A 9400 Glades Road Boca Raton, Florida 33433
Susan Bush 9400 Glades Road Boca Raton, Florida 33433
**
ARTICLE XIII
 **
INITIAL REGISTERED OFFICE, AGENT AND ADDRESS

The principal office of the Association shall be 9400 Glades Road, Boca Raton, Florida, or at such other place, within or
without the State of Florida, as may be subsequently designated by the Board of Directors. The initial° registered office is at
the above address and the initial registered agent therein is Walter Ketay.
-8-

=== PAGE 30 ===
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the said subscribers have hereunto set day of .1983.

WITNESSES:

S,,q!"kr\, :"l3,,4!5lL
**
SUSAN BUSH

STATE OF FLORIDA
 **
:SS

COUNTY OF PALM BEACH :

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of ________ , 1983, by Walter Ketay, ~••·••~&MMMlift~?ilw•
11.:r-ind Susan Bush.
Commission Expires:
**
NOTARY PUBLIC
 **
State of Florida at Large -9-

=== PAGE 31 ===
** ACCEPTANCE OF RESIDENT AGENT
 **
The undersigned accepts his appointment as the· initial registered agent of Boca Ridge Glen Homeowners' Association, Inc.
**
WALTER KETAY
 **
-10-

=== PAGE 32 ===
BYLAWS

BOCAR IDGE GLEN HOMEOWNERSA' SSOCIATION, INC.
**
ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS
 **
Section 1. "Association" shall mean and refer to the BOCA RIDGE GLEN HOMEOWNERSA' SSOCIATION, INC., a not for profit cor
poration organized and existing under the laws of the State of Florida.
Section 2. "The Properties II shall mean and refer to The Properties as defined in the Declaration of Covenants and Restric
tions for Boca Ridge Glen ( the "Declaration") recorded or to be recorded among the Public Records of Palm Beach County -, Florida.
Section 3. "Lot" shall mean and refer to any lot, unit or
other parcel with any and all improvements thereon, in ~oca Ridge Glen platted in the Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida
on which a residential structure could be constructed whether or
not one has been constructed.
Section 4. "Owner" shall mean and refer to the record owner, whether one or more persons or entities, of the fee simple
title to any Lot.
Section 5. "Member" shall mean and refer to all those Owners who are members of the Association as provided in Article
IV, Section 1, of the Articles of Incorporation of the Associa tion.
Section 6. ''Developer" shall mean and refer to Ketay Enter prises, Inc., a Florida corporation, its successors and assigns.
Section 7. Each defined term used herein which is defined in the Declaration shall have the same meaning or definition when
used herein as the meaning or definition ascribed thereto in the
Declaration.
**
ARTICLE II

LOCATION
 **
Section 1. The principal office of the Association shall be located at 9400 Glades Road, Boca Raton, Florida 33433.
**
ARTICLE III

MEMBERSHIP
 **
Section 1. Membership of the Association is as set forth in Article IV, Section 1, of the Articles of Incorporation of the
Association.
Section 2. The rights of membership are subject to the
payment of annual and special assessments levied by the Associa tion. The obligation for such assessments is imposed against
each Owner of the Lot against which such assessments are made, and such assessments become a lien upon the Lot against which the
same are assessed as provided in Article V of the Declaration.

=== PAGE 33 ===
** ARTICLE IV

BOARDO F DIRECTORS
 **
Section 1. The directors of the Association shall be elected at the annual meeting of the Members as specified in the Articles
of Incorporation. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the Association, the election of each director
shall be separate and shall require a plurality of the votes of those persons voting in each election. There shall be no cumu-
lative voting.
Section 2. Any director may be removed from office at any time with or without cause by a majority vote of the Association
membership, except that the directors elected or designated by the Class B Member may be removed only by the Class B Member and
except that the directors named in the Articles of Incorporation may be removed only by the Class B Member .
. Section 3. The first meeting of a newly elected Board of Directors, for the purpose of organization, shall be held immed
iately after the annual meeting of Members, provided the majority of the members of the Board elected be present. Any action taken
at such meeting shall be by a majority of the whole Board. If the majority of the members of the Board elected sha;J.l not be
present at that time, or if the directors shall fail to elect officers, the meeting of the Board to elect officers shall then
be held within thirty ( 30) days after the annual meeting of Members upon at least three (3) days' notice in writing to each
member of the Board elected, stating the time, place and object of such meeting.
Section 4. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may
be held at any place or places within Palm Beach County, Florida, on such days and at such hours as the Board of Directors may, by
resolution, designate.
Section 5. No notice shall be required to ~e given of any · regular meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 6. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may
be called at any time by the President or by any two (2) members of the Board and may be held at any place or places within Palm
Beach County, Florida.
Section 7. Notice of each special meeting of the Board of Directors, stating the time, place and purpose or purposes there
of, shall be given by or on behalf of the Secretary or by or on behalf of any two (2) members of the Board to each member of the
Board not less than three ( 3} days by mail or one ( 1) day by telephone or telegraph. Special meetings of the Board may also be
held at any place and time without notice by unanimous waiver of notice by all the directors. The Board· of Directors may act by
unanimous written consent in lieu of a meeting.
**
ARTICLE V

OFFICERS
 **
Section 1. The officers of the Association shall consist of a President, a Vice President, a Secretary and a Treasurer, each
of whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors. Such other officers and assistant officers and agents as may be deemed
necessary may be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors from time to time. Any two or more offices may be held by the
same person provided, however, that neither the offices of Pres ident and Vice President nor the offices of President and Secre
tary shall be held by the same person. Any officer may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
Board of Directors at any duly called regular or special meeting of the Board.
-2-

=== PAGE 34 ===
Section 2. The . President shall be the chief excutive officer of the Association. The President shall preside at all
meetings of the Members of the Association and of the Board of Directors. He shall have the general powers and duties of super
vision and management of the Association which usually pertain to his office, and shall perform a.11 such duties as are properly
required of him by the Board of Directors. The Board of Direc tors shall elect one Vice President, who shall generally assist
the President and who shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as usually pertain to such office or as are
properly required of him by the Board of Directors. In the
absence or disability of the President, the Vice President shall
perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President.
Section 3. The Secretary shall issue notices of all m,=.f:.'t ings of the membership of the Association and the directors where
notice of such meetings are required by law or in these Bylaws.
Be shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the membership and
of the Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors elects or
appoints one or more assistant secretaries, such assistant sec retaries shall, in · the absence or disability of the Secretary,
perform the duties of the Secretary in such order as shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Section 4. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of all the monies and securities of the Association. He shall enter
on the books of the Association, to be kept by him for that purpose, full and accurate accounts of all monies received by him
and paid by him on account of the Association. He shall sign such instruments as require his signature and shall perform all
such duties as usually pertain to his office or as are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall
cause an annual audit of the Association's books to be made at the close of each fiscal year. In the event the Association
enters into a management agreement, the duties and functions of the Treasurer may be delegated to the managing agent to the
extent such delegation is determined to be appropriate by the
Board of Directors.
· Section 5. Vacancies· in any office arising from any cause may be filled by the Board of Directors at any regular or special
meeting.
Section 6. The compensation, if any, of all officers and
other employees of the Association shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
**
ARTICLE VI

MEETINGSO F MEMBERS
 **
Section 1. The regular annual meeting of the members shall
be held on the third Monday of the month of April in each year beginning in 1984 at such time and place as shall be determined
by the Board of Directors, except that the Board of Directors shall have the right to change the date of regular annual meet
ings from time to time.
Section 2. Special meetings of the Members for any purpose may be called at any time by the President or the Vice President.
In addition, a special meeting of the Members shall be called as directed by resolution of the Board of Directors or upon the
written request of the Members who have the right to vote one third of the votes of the Class A membership, except that a
special meeting of the special meeting of the Members to recall or remove a member of the Board of Directors (other than a direc
tor elected or designated by the Class B Member) shall be called either as directed by resolution of the Board of Directors or
upon the written request of the Members who have the right to -3-

=== PAGE 35 ===
vote one-tenth of all the votes of the entire membership or who have the right to vote one-tenth of the votes of the Class A
membership.
Section 3. Notice may be given to the Member either person ally, or by sending a copy of the notice through the mail, pos
tage thereon fully paid, to his address appearing on the records of the Association. Each Member shall register his address with
the Secretary, and notice of . meetings shall be mailed to him at such address.. Notice of any meeting, regular or special, shall
be mailed or personally delivered at least fourteen (14) days but not more than forty (40) days in advance of the meeting and shall
set forth the general nature of the business to be transacted.
Section 4. The presence at the meeting of Members entitled to cast thirty (30%) · percent of the - votes shall constitute a
quorum for any action governed by these Bylaws. If a quorum present, the vote of a majority of the members who are present or
represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter, shall be the act of the membership unless otherwise pro
vided by law or by the Articles of Incorporation of the Associa tion.
Section 5. If at any meeting of the membership there shall
be less than a quorum present, the majority of those present may
adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is present.
Any business which might.have been transacted .at a meeting when originally called may be transacted at any adjournment thereof.
In the case of the adjournment of a meeting, no notice to the
Members of such adjournment shall be required other than announce ment at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned
meeting.
Section 6. Voting rights of Members shall be as stated in the Articles of Incorporation of the Association. Such votes may
be cast in person or by proxy. "Proxy" is defined to mean an instrument containing the appointment of a person who is
appointed by a Member to vote for him and in his place and stead.
Proxies shall be in writing and shall be valid only for the
particular meeting designated therein and any adjournment thereof if so stated. A proxy must be filed with the Secretary before
the appointed time of the meeting in order to be effective. Any proxy may be revoked prior to the time a vote is cast pursuant to
such proxy.
. Section 7. At any time prior to a vote upon any matter at a meeting of the membership, any Member may request the use of a
secret written ballot for the voting thereon and require the use of such secret written ballot. In the event such secret written
ballot is used, the chairman of the meeting shall call for
nominations and the election of inspectors of election to collect and tally such secret written ballots upon the completion of the
balloting.
Section 8. Roberts Rules of Order (latest edition) shall
govern the conduct of all meetings 0£ the Members of the Associa tion when not in conflict with the Declaration, the Articles of
Incorporation of the Association, the Bylaws of the Association of the Statutes of Florida.
**
ARTICLE VII

BOOKS AND RECORDS
 **
Section 1; The books and records of the Association shall, during reasonable business hours, be available at the office of
· the Association for the inspection of ·any Member of the Associa tion upon at least seven (7) days prior written request given by
such Member to the Association.
-4-

=== PAGE 36 ===
** ARTICLE VIII

FISCAL MATTERS
 **
Section 1. The fiscal year of the Association shall begin on the first day of January and end on the last day of December,
provided, however, that the Board of Directors shall be author
ized to change the fiscal year at such time and from time to time as the Board of Directors shall' deem it advisable .
Section 2. The funds of the Association shall be deposited in one or more savings and loan associations or banks in Palm
Beach County, Florida under resolutions duly approved by the
Board of Directors, and shall be withdrawn only over the sig nature(s) of the officer(s) authorized to withdraw funds by such
resolutions.
Section 4. The Board of Directors shall present at each annual meeting, a full and clear statement of the business and
condition of the Association.
**
ARTICLE IX
 **
AMENDMENTSC; ONFLICTS

Section 1. Subject to the .provisions of Section 2 hereof, these Bylaws may be amended at any regular or special meeting of
the Members, by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Members present in person or by proxy. The notice of such meeting shall
expressly state that such amendment will be considered at the
• meeting.
Section 2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary con- tained herein,
( a) Prior to the first sale and conveyance of a Lot by the
Developer, these Bylaws may be amended by the affirma tive vote or consent of the Board of Directors;
(b) No amendment to these Bylaws shall be made which con flicts with the Declaration or the Articles of Incor
poration of the Association; and
(c) No amendment to these Bylaws shall be made without the
written consent of the Developer for so long as the
Developer is the owner of any Lot.
Section 3. A copy of each amendment of these Bylaws shall
be recorded among the Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida.
Section 4. In case of any conflict between the Articles of Incorporation of the Association and these Bylaws, the Articles
of Incorporation shall govern and control. In case of any con flict between the Declaration and these Bylaws, the Declaration
shall govern and control.
WE HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing Bylaws of the above named corporation were duly adopted by the Board of Directors of
said Association at a meeting held for such purpose on the
day of _________ , 1983.
**
WALTERK ETAY
 **
-s-

=== PAGE 37 ===
** SUSAN BUSH

STATE OF FLORIDA
 **
:SS
**
COUNTY OF PALM BEACH
 **
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of ~-------=----' 1983, by WALTER KETAY and SUSAN
BUSH, as President and Secretary, respectively, of Boca Ridge Glen Homeowners' Association, Inc., a Florida not for profit
corporation, on behalf of the corporati~n.
My Commission Expires:
**
NOTARYP UBLIC
 **
State of Florida at Large -6-
