
===============================================================================
📄 DOCUMENT: CHBoca-Ridge-Glen_Declaration-of-Covenants&Restrictions
📅 EXTRACTED: OCR Processor
📍 SOURCE: CHBoca-Ridge-Glen_Declaration-of-Covenants&Restrictions.pdf (OCR)
===============================================================================

 === PAGE 1 === Wigge ay diay AES ue Se Beas t t “yt EMO 3 ~~ 1 % ute Om DE a : ue Loco. SBF hy Beck ~- Sit ssa, oye Aare \ BR Sb P eae es «' Begs f \/ s a ay ey ya Sir te Sed 1 s er { 78 (5 « 2 a Sales N Fok rs cae Siete Ay? ef" f (igs ae =~ Lew 4 Be OY ee SR eS Pak . a ; COSMAS a 2 SS SNe meee a) dh See ee Ae a sr Pe eae et pwn Fes SOT Es fg SES === PAGE 2 === | DECLARATION OF ⚖️ [DECLARATION] COVENANTS AND ⚖️ [DECLARATION] RESTRICTIONS | , FOR : 1 BOCA RIDGE GLEN THIS DECLARATION made this day of , 1983, by Ketay Enterprises, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Developer"), which hereby declares that the real property described in Article II herein which is owned by Developer (hereinafter referred to as "Boca Ridge Glen") is and shall be held, transferred, sold, conveyed, and occupied subject to the ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants, _⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions, easements, charges and liens (sometimes herein referred to as "⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants and ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions") set forth below. : ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS The following words when used in this Declaration and all its exhibits Cunless the context otherwise requires) shall have the following meanings: (a) "Association" - Boca Ridge Glen Homeowners' Association, Inc., a Florida corporation not for profit, its successors and assigns. ’ il (b) "Common Areas" - The property described in Exhibit "B" attached 1 hereto and made a part hereof, together with any and all improvements from | time to time erected on such property, including without limitation walkways, parking facilities, lakes, ponds, canals and other watercourses, open spaces, private streets, sidewalks, driveways, street lighting, entrance features and ; landscaping, but excluding any public or private utility installations thereon. : If additional real property is brought under the provisions hereof by recorded | Supplemental Declaration pursuant to Article II, then the Common Areas shall 1 include the portion or portions of the additional real property that may be designated to be Common Areas in such Supplemental Declaration. (c) "Developer" - Ketay Enterprises, Inc., a Florida corporation, its pi successors and assigns if such successor or assignee acquires the undeveloped * portion of Boca Ridge Glen from the Developer for the purpose of development ; and is designated as such by Developer. 1 (da) "Lot" - Any lot, unit or other parcel with any and all improvements ' thereon, in Boca Ridge Glen platted in the Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, on which a residential structure could be constructed whether 1 or not one has been constructed. (e} "Owner" - The record owner, whether one or more persons or entities, of the fee simple title to any Lot, but excluding those having such interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation. (f) "Member" - An Owner who is a member of the Association as pro- vided for in Article III, Section 1 hereof. (g) "The Properties" - All of such properties and additions thereto : (which additional properties may or may not be contiguous to the real prop- erty described in Article II herein), as are subject to this Declaration or any Supplemental Declaration under the provisions of Article II hereof. ARTICLE II PROPERTY SUBJECT TO THIS DECLARATION: ADDITIONS THERETO, DELETIONS THEREFROM . Section 1. Legal Description. The real property which is, and shall be held, transferred, sold, conveyed, demised and occupied subject to this Declaration is located in Palm Beach County, Florida and is more particularly described as follows: === PAGE 3 === | } See Exhibit "A" attached hereto and made a part hereof. Section 2. Developer's Right to Add Additional Property or Withdraw } Property. Developer may from time to time bring additional real property | now owned or hereafter acquired by Developer (which may or may not be contiguous to the real property described in Exhibit "A" hereof) under the | provisions hereof. Developer may also withdraw portions of the land herein- | above described. No property shall be withdrawn from this Declaration | unless such property is dedicated to another association or governmental authority. Neither the addition or withdrawal of lands as aforesaid shall, without the joinder or consent of a majority of the Members of the Associa- | tion, materially increase the prorata share of Association expenses payable by | the Owners of property subject to this Declaration prior to such addition or remaining subject hereto after such withdrawal. The addition or withdrawal of lands as aforesaid shall be made and evidenced by filing in the Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, a Supplementary Declaration with respect to the lands to be added or withdrawn. Developer reserves the right to so amend and supplement this Declaration without the consent or joinder of the Association or any Owner or mortgagee of any of the Properties. Nothing herein contained shall obligate the Developer to submit additional real property to the provisions of this Declaration. The submission of addi- tional real property to the provisions of this Declaration shall be at the sole discretion of the Developer. Section 3. Merger or Consolidation. Upon a merger or consolidation of the Association with any other association as provided in its articles of incor- poration, its properties, rights and obligations may, by operation of law, be transferred to another surviving or consolidated association or, alternatively, the properties, rights and obligations of another association may, by operation of law, be added to the properties, rights and obligations of the Association or another association as a surviving corporation pursuant to a merger. The | surviving or consolidated association may administer the ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants and restric- tions established by this Declaration within the Properties together with the | ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants and ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions established upon any other property as one scheme. No such merger or consolidation, however, shall effect any revocation, change or addition to the ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants and ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions established by this Declaration within the Properties. Section 4. Platting and Subdivision ⚖️ [DECLARATION] Restrictions. The Developer shall be entitled at any time and from time to time, to plat or replat all or part of the Properties, and to file subdivision ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions or admendments thereto with respect to any undeveloped portions of the Properties. Any portion of the plat or plats of the Properties containing open spaces may not be vacated in whole or in part unless the entire plat is vacated. ARTICLE III MEMBERSHIP AND VOTING RIGHTS IN THE ASSOCIATION Section 1. Membership. . Every person or entity who is a record fee simple Owner of a Lot, including the Developer at all times as long as it owns any part of the Property subject to this Declaration, shall be a Member of the . Association, provided that any such person or entity hold such interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation shall not be a Member of the Association. Membership shall be appurtenant to, and may not be separated from ownership of any Lot which is subject to assessment. Section 2. Voting Rights. The Association shall have two (2) classes of voting membership: Class A Class A Members shall be all of the Owners, as defined in Section 1, with the exception of the Developer. Class A Members shall be entitled to one vote for each: Lot in which they hold the interest required for membership by Section 1. When more than one person holds such interest or interests in any Lot, all such persons shall be Members, and the vote for such Lot shall be exercised by one such Member as specified in the Articles of Incorporation of the Association -2- === PAGE 4 === | but in no event shall more than one vote be cast with respect to any | such Lot. Class B The Class’ B Member shall be the Developer. The Class B Member shall be entitled to one vote for each Lot in which it holds the interest required for membership by Section 1, provided, however, that notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein, the Developer shall have the right to elect a majority or the Board of Direc- tors of the Association until such time as the Developer no longer holds ; | the title to any Lot within the Properties or to any additional property which may have been brought under the provisions hereof by recorded Supplemental Declarations, as set forth in Article II hereof. Within six (6) months from the date the Developer conveys title to the last Lot which its owns in the Properties, the Association shall conduct a turn- over meeting for the purpose of electing directors by the Class A Members. Section 3. Suspension of Voting Rights. Notwithstanding the provisions hereof, the Association shall have ine right to suspend any Member's voting right (other than the right of the Developer) for any period of during which any assessment or installment thereof shall remain unpaid for more than thirty (30) days after the due date for the payment thereof. ARTICLE IV PROPERTY IN THE COMMON AREAS Section 1. Ownership. Developer may retain the legal title to the Common Areas so long as it owns fee simple title to at least one Lot in the Properties. On or before conveyance by Developer of the last Lot which it owns in the Properties (or sooner at the Developer's option), the Developer, or its successors and assigns, shall convey and transfer the record fee simple er title to the Common Areas to the Association and the Association shall accept such conveyance, subject to taxes for the year of conveyance and to mort- gages, ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions, limitations, conditions, reservations and easements of record. Commencing with the date this Declaration is recorded, the Associa- | tion shall be responsible for the maintenance and administration of the Common Areas in a continuous and satisfactory manner and for the payment of taxes assessed against the Common Areas and any improvements and personal prop- erty thereon accruing from and after the date of such recordation. Such taxes shall be prorated between the Developer and the Association as of the date of such recordation. Developer shall have the right from time to time to enter upom the Common Areas during periods of construction upon adjacent properties and for the purpose of construction of any facilities on the Common Areas that Developer elects to build. Section 2. Members' Easements. Each Member of the Association and each tenant, guest and invitee of such Member shall have a permanent and perpetual easement for ingress and egress for pedestrian and vehicular traffic over and across the walkways, private streets, sidewalks and driveways from time to time laid out on the Common Areas for use in common with all other Members, their tenants, guests and invitees. The portion of the Common Areas not used, from time to time, for walkways, private streets, sidewalks or driveways shall be for the common use and enjoyment of the Members of the Association and each Member shall have a permanent and perpetual ease- ment for the use of such portion of such lands as common open space in such manner as may be regulated by the Association. The foregoing easements are subject to the following: : (a) The right and duty of the Association to levy assessments against each Lot for the purpose of maintaining the Common Areas in com- pliance with the provisions of this Declaration and with any restric- tions on the plat or plats of the Properties from time to time recorded. . (b) The right of the Association to suspend the voting rights of an ; Owner and right of an Owner to use the Common Areas (except the private streets, sidewalks and driveways from time to time located -3- === PAGE 5 === on the Common Areas) for any period during which any assessment against his Lot remains unpaid for more than thirty (30) days after ’ the due date for the payment thereof, and for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days for any infraction of its lawfully adopted and published rules and regulations. (c) The right of the Association to adopt and enforce rules and regula- tions governing the use of the Common Areas and all facilities at any time situated thereon. (d) The right of the Developer or the Association to dedicate or transfer all or any part of the Common Areas to any public agency, authority or utility for such purposes and upon such conditions as may be agreed to by the Members provided, however, that no such dedi- cation or transfer by the Association shall be effective unless approved by the Developer so long as the Developer owns at least one Lot within the Property and by seventy-five (75%) percent of the Members present and voting at a regular or special meeting of Members duly called and regularly conducted in accordance with the Bylaws. The right of an Owner to the use and enjoyment of the Common Areas and facilities thereon shall extend to the members of his immediate family who reside with him, subject to the regulations from time to time adopted by the Association in its lawfully adopted and published rules and regulations. The easements provided in this Section 2 shall be appurtenant to and shall pass with the title to each Lot. Section 3. Utility Easements. Public utilities may be installed under- ground in the Common Areas when necessary for the service of the Properties or additional lands for which Developer holds an option to purchase, but all use of utility easements shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Declaration. Section 4. Public Easements. Fire, police, health, sanitation and other public service personnel and vehicles shall have a perpetual, non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress over and across the Common Areas. Section 5. Easement for Unintentional and Non-Negligent Encroachments. If any other building or improvement shall encroach upon any portion of the Common Areas or upon an easement by reason of original construction or by the non-purposeful or non-negligent act of Developer or any other owner of such building or improvement, then an easement for such encroachment shall exist so Jong as the encroachment exists. Section 6. Reciprocal Easements. There shall be reciprocal appurtenant easements between each Lot upon which a villa or townhouse is constructed, the maintenance, repair and reconstruction of any party wall or walls and any non-party wall or walls, for lateral and subjacent support; for roofs and eaves and for replacements thereof; and for encroachments caused by the unwillful placement, settling or shifting of any improvements constructed, reconstructed or altered thereon in accordance with the terms hereof. The extent of said easements for lateral and subjacent support and for overhangs shall be that reasonably necessary to effectuate the purposes thereof; and . said easements of encroachment shall extend to a distance of not more than six (6) feet, as measured from any point on the common boundary along a line ; perpendicular to such boundary at such point. Notwithstanding the fore- going, in no event shall there by any easement for overhangs or encroach- ments if the same is caused by willfull misconduct on the part of an Owner, his successor or assigns. Section 7. Additional Easments. The Developer (during any period in which the Developer has any ownership interest in the Properties) and the Association shall each have the right to grant such additional electric, tele- phone, gas, sprinkler, irrigation, cable television or other utility easements, and to relocate any existing utility easement in any portion of the Properties and to grant access easements and to relocate any existing access easements in any portion of the Properties, or any portion thereof, or for the general health or welfare of the Owners or for the purpose of carrying out any pro- -4- === PAGE 6 === 1 | visions of this Declaration; provided that such easements or the relocation of | existing easements will not prevent or unreasonably interfere with the use of | the Lots for dwelling purposes. 7 If a residence is constructed within eight (8) feet of the side lot line of | any Lot, in order to allow the Owner of any such Residence to maintain the | wall facing the adjoining lot, each Owner of such Residence shall have an | easement over the adjoining Lot, with the right of ingress and egress during reasonable times of day, for the purpose of maintaining and repairing the wall | facing the adjoining Lot. The easement created in this Section shall be per- | manent, perpetual and exclusive to the Owners involved. Section 7. Maintenance of Common Areas. (a) The Association shall at all times maintain in good repair, and chall replace as often as necessary, any and all improvements situated on the Common Areas (upon completion of construction by Developer), including, but not limited to, all recreational facilities, landscaping, sprinkler pipes and systems, paving, drainage structures, lakes, ponds, canals and other watercourses and the banks, shorelines and boundaries thereof, walkways, common parking facilities, pri- vate streets, sidewalks, driveways, street lighting fixtures and appurtenances, entrance features and other structures, except , public utilities, all such work to be done as ordered by the Board of Directors. The Common Areas shall include the grass areas to the edge of the pavement of Boca Ridge Drive and Boca Ridge Drive South. Maintenance of the street lighting fixtures shall include the fixtures within the Common Areas and shall further extend to payment for electricity consumed in the illumination of such lights. The Developer or the Association may repair, change, replace or restore the walls and fences that are on any of the Lots - or Common Areas within the Properties. All work pursuant to this Section and all expenses hereunder shall be paid for by the Asso- | ciation through assessments imposed in accordance with Article V hereof. Such assessments shall be against all Lots equally; pro- vided, however, that the cost of any maintenance, repair or replace- ment caused by the negligent conduct of a Member or by the failure of a Member to comply with lawfully adopted rules and regulations shall be levied as a special assessment against such Member. No | Owner may waive or otherwise escape liability for the assessments for such maintenance by non-use of the Common Areas or abandon- ment of his right to use the Common Areas. The Association, its successors and assigns, shall have a perpetual, non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress over, upon and across all portions of the Properties and to excavate thereon in connection with the maintenance of sprinkler pipes and systems to the extent necessary for the performance of the work to be performed pursuant to this Section; provided, however, that the party causing any such exca- vations restores disturbed areas to the condition thereof immediately prior to such excavations. (b) The Developer intends to construct on the Common Areas a club- house, swimming pool, tennis court and security gate, and the construction, size and design of which shall be within the Devel- . oper's sole discretion subject to such rules and regulations con- cerning the use thereof, as the Developer determines. Section 8. Party Walls. (a) Each wall which is built as a part of the original construction of a villa and placed on the dividing line between the villas shall con- 1 stitute a party wall; and, to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of these ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants and ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions, the general rules of the laws of the State of Florida regarding party walls and liability for property damage due to negligence or willful acts or omissions shall apply thereto. (b) The cost of reasonable repair and maintenance of a party wall shall be shared by the Owners who make use of the wall in proportion to such use. -5- === PAGE 7 === | (c) If a party wall is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty | and if such destruction or damage is not covered by insurance, any Owner who has used the party wall may restore it, and if the other. Owners thereafter make use of the party wall, they shall contribute } to the cost of restoration thereof in proportion to their use without | prejudice, however, to the right of any such Owners to call for a larger contribution from the others under any rule of law regarding liability for negligent or willful acts or ommissions. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of these convenants and restric- tions, an Owner who, by any negligent or willful act causes the party wall to be exposed to the elements, shall bear the whole cost of furnishing the necessary protection against such elements. (e) The right of any Owner to contribution from any other Owner hereunder shall be appurtenant to the land and shall pass to such Owner's successors in title. (f) In the event of any dispute arising concerning a party wall, or under these provisions, each Owner shall choose one arbitrator, and such arbitrators shall choose one additional arbitrator, and the decision shall be by a majority of all the arbitrators and said de- cision shall be enforcement in any court of competent jurisdiction. Should any party refuse to appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) days after written request therefor, the Association shall select an arbritrator for the refusing Owner. (g) In the event an Owner shall fail to effect reasonable repair and maintenance of a party wall pursuant hereto, in a manner satis- factory to the Board of Directors of the Association, then the Association, after approval by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Board of Directors, shall have the right through its agents and employees, to enter upon said Lot and to repair, maintain, and restore the party wall. The cost involved therein shall be added to and become part of the assessment to which such Lot is subject. Said assess- ment shall be enforced by the Association pursuant hereto. ARTICLE V ASSOCIATION-- ⚖️ [DECLARATION] COVENANT FOR MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENTS Section 1. Creation of the Lien and Personal Obligation for the Assess- ments. The Developer, for each Lot owned by it within the Properties, hereby ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants, and each Owner of any Lot, by acceptance of a deed therefor, whether or not it shall be so expressed in any such deed or other conveyance, shall be deemed to ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenant and agree to pay to the Association annual assessments or charges for the maintenance of the Common Areas as provided in Article IV hereof, and the Exterior Finishing and Lawn Mainte- nance as provided in Sections 3 and 4 of this Article V, including such rea- sonable reserves as the Association may deem necessary, and special assess- ments as provided in Section 3 and 4 hereof, such assessments to be fixed, established and collected from time to time as hereinafter provided. The . annual and special assessments, together with such interest thereon and costs of collection thereof as hereinafter provided, shall be a charge on the Jand and shall be a continuing lien upon the Lot against which such assessment is made. Each such assessment, together with such interest thereon and costs of collection hereof as hereinafter provided, shall also be the personal obliga- tion of the person who was the Owner of such Lot at the time when the assessment fell due. Except as otherwise provided in Section 7 of Article IV, and in Sections 3 and 4 of this Article V, all assessments, both regular and F special, shall be equally assessed against all Lots within the Properties. Section 2. Purpose of Assessments. The assessments levied by the Association shall be used exclusively for maintenance of the Common Areas as provided in Article IV hereof, for Exterior Finishing as provided in Section 3 hereof, for Lawn Maintenance as provided in Section 4 hereof, for Capital Improvements as provided in Section 5 hereof and to promote the health, -6- === PAGE 8 === | safety, welfare, and recreational opportunities of the Members of the Associa- | tion and their families residing with them, and their guests and tenants, including but not limited to expenses in connection with security and any and ‘ all guardhouses and gates located on roadways leading into or away from the | Properties. Section 3. Exterior Finishing. The paint, coating, stain and other exterior finishing colors on all buildings shall be maintained by the Associa- tion as originally installed by the Developer without prior approval of the Architectural Control Board, but prior approval by the Architectural Control | Board shall be necessary before any such exterior finishing color is changed. The Board of Directors shall determine the need for any exterior finishing under this Section 3. The Board shall estimate the cost of any such exterior finishing for each year and shall fix the assessments for each year, but said Board shall, thereafter, make such adjustment with the Owners as is neces- sary, including special assessments if necessary, to reflect the actual cost of such finishing. Such assessments shall be against all Lots equally (except | for maintenance specifically requested by an Owner); provided, however, that | the cost of any maintenance caused by the negligent conduct of an Owner or by the failure of such Owner to comply with the lawfully adopted rules and regulations of the Association, shall be levied as a special assessment against such Owner. Section 4. Lawn Maintenance. So long as title to the Common Areas is held by the Association, the Association shall be responsible for maintenance, lawn care and irrigation of those areas. The Common Areas shall include the grass areas to the edge of the pavement of Boca Ridge Drive and Boca Ridge Drive South. In addition, the Association shall cut the grass and provide irrigation to the yards of each of the Lots by way of a master sprinkler system to be installed during the development of Boca Ridge Glen. The Board of Directors of the Association shall estimate the cost of any such maintenance for each year and shall fix the assessments for each year, but said Board shall make such _adjustmen 1 1 necessa to reflect the actual cost of such maintenance. Such assessments | “fOr maintenance shall be against all Lots equally (except for maintenance specifically requested by an Owner); provided, however, that the cost of any maintenance caused by the negligent conduct of an Owner or by the failure of - such Owner to comply with the lawfully adopted rules and regulations of the Association, shall be levied as a special assessment against such Owner. In addition, an Owner may be specially assessed for any damage or injury caused | by the negligent conduct of such Owner to any easement areas granted to provide access to perform the maintenance. It is the intention hereof that the Association shall perform only routine maintenance as described in this Section 4. For the purpose solely of performing the maintenance authorized by Sec- tions 3 and’4, the Association, through its duly authorized agents, employees or independent contractors, shall have the right to enter upon any Lot at reasonable hours of any day. Each Owner hereby grants to the Association, its duly authorized agents, employees or independent contractors such ease- ments for ingress and egress, across the Lots and through improvements constructed upon the Lots, as may be reasonably necessary to effect and perform and the required maintenance aforementioned. In addition, the Owner of the adjoining property (not within the Properties) may grant the . Association, its duly authorized agents, employees, or independent contrac- tors, such easements for ingress and egress across its properties to effect and perform the exterior maintenance aforementioned. In such event, the Association shall indemnify any such adjoining property Owner for any damage or injury to the easement areas caused by the use thereof for access to perform the exterior maintenance. In the event an Owner is on vacation or will not be present to permit entry onto his Lot for the exterior maintenance aforementioned, said Owner shall deposit his house key with the Association to permit entry thereon. Section 5. Capital Improvements. Funds necessary for capital improve- ments relating to ihe Common Areas may be levied as special assessments by the Association, upon approval by a majority of the Board of Directors of the Association and upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) vote of Members voting at a meeting or by ballot as may be provided in the Bylaws of the Association. -7- === PAGE 9 === Section 6. Date of Commencement of Annual Assessments; Due Dates. | The annual assessments provided for in this Article V Shall commence on the | date or dates (which shall be the first day of a month) fixed by the Board of Directors of the Association to be the date of commencement. The annual | assessments shall be payable in advance in monthly installments. The amount of the annual assessment may be changed, at any time, by said Board from that originally stipulated herein, or from any other assess- | ment that is in the future adopted. The assessment sha]1 be for the calendar | year, but the amount of the annual assessment to be levied during the period shorter than a full calendar year shall be a proration to the number of ‘months | remaining in such calendar year. The due date of any special assessment for capital improvements under Section 5 hereof shall be fixed in the resolution of the Board of Directors authorizing such assessment. | Section 7. Duties of the Board of Directors. Except for the initial assessments specified in Section 6 above, the Board of Directors of the Assoc- | iation shall fix the date of commencement and the amount of the assessment | against each Lot at least thirty (30) days in advance of the commencement of | the assessment period and shall, at that time, prepare a roster of the Lots | and assessments applicable thereto which shall be kept in the office of the | Association and shall be open to inspection by any Owner. Written notice of the assessment shall thereupon be sent to every Owner subject thereto. The Association shall, upon demand at any time, furnish to any Owner liable for an assessment a certificate in writing signed by an officer of the | Association, setting forth whether such assessment has been paid as to the - Lot owned by the Owner making request therefor. Such certificate shall be | conclusive evidence of payment of any assessment to the Association therein - stated to have been paid. . The Association, through the action of its Board of Directors, shall have the powers to enter into an agreement or agreements from time to time with one or more persons, firms or corporations for management services. The Association shall have all other powers as provided in its Articles of Incor- poration. The Board of Directors shall also purchase officers' and directors' liability insurance and cause all officers and directors having fiscal respons- ibilities to be bonded, as the Board may deem necessary. The Association shall also collect from all Owners the annual, special and individual assessments from the Boca Ridge Property Owners Association, Inc. and shall pay said Association all sums collected. Section 8. Collection of Assessment; Effect of Non-Payment of Assessment; The Personal Obligation of the Owner; The Lien; Remedies of the Association. If the assessments are not paid on the date when due (being the date speci- fied in Section 6 hereof), then such assessments shall become delinquent and shall, together with such interest thereon and the cost of collection thereof as herein provided, thereupon become a continuing lien on the property which shall bind such property in the hands of the Owner, his heirs, devisees, personal representatives, successors and assigns. Any individual who ac- quires title to a Lot upon the death of an Owner or by operation of law shall . be personally liable for unpaid assessments with respect of such Lot. In any voluntary conveyance, the grantee shall be jointly and severally liable with the grantor for all unpaid assessments made prior to the time of such vol- untary conveyance, without prejudice to the rights of the grantee to recover from the Grantor the amounts paid by the grantee therefor. If the assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days after the due date, the assessment shall bear interest from the date when due at the rate of eighteen (18%) percent per annum and the Association may bring an action at law against the Owner personally obligated to pay the same or may record a claim of lien against the property on which the assessment is unpaid and may foreclose the lien against the property on which the assessment is unpaid, in like manner as a foreclosure of a mortgage on real property, or pursue one -8- === PAGE 10 === | ; | or more of such remedies at the same time or successively, and there shall be | added to the amount of such assessment, attorneys’ fees and costs of prepar- | ing and filing the claim of lien and the complaint in such action, and in the | event a judgment is obtained, such judgment shall include interest on the assessment as above provided and a reasonable attorneys' fee to be fixed by the court together with the costs of the action, and the Association shall be entitled to attorneys' fees in connection with any appeal of any such action. It shall be the legal duty and responsibility of the Association to enforce | payment of the assessments hereunder. Section 9. Subordination of the Lien to Mortgages. The lien of the assessment provided for in this Article V shall be Subordinate to the lien of any institutional first mortgage recorded prior to the recordation of a claim of | lien for unpaid assessments. An institutional lender means a bank, savings | and loan association, insurance company, mortgage company, real estate | investment trust, pension fund, pension trust, or any other generally recog- nized institutional-type lender or its loan correspondent, or any agency of | the United States Government or any lender providing funds to the Developer. . Section 10. Effect on Developer. Notwithstanding any provision tha may be contained to the contrary in this Declaration, for so long as Developer is the Owner of any Lot, the Developer shall not be liable for assessments against such Lot, provided that Developer funds any deficit in operating expenses of the Assocjation. Developer may, at any time, commence paying such assessments as to all Lots that it owns and thereby automatically termin- ate its obligation to fund deficits in the operating expenses of the Association. Section 11. Exempt Property. The Board of Directors shall have the right to exempt property subject to this Declaration from the assessments, charges and liens created herein if such property is used (and as Jong as it is used) for any of the following purposes: (a) Any easement or other interest therein dedicated and accepted by a | public authority and devoted to public use or to Boca Ridge Prop- erty Owners Association, Inc. and Boca Ridge Park Condominium Association, Inc. (b) All Common Areas as defined in Article 1 hereof. (c) All properties exempt from ad valorem taxation by the laws of the State of Florida, to the extent agreed to by the Association. Notwithstanding any provisions herein, no land devoted to dwelling use shall be exempted from said assessments, charges or liens. Section 12. Annual Budget. By a majority vote of the Board of Direc- tors, the Board shall adopt an annual budget for the subsequent fiscal year which shall provide for allocation of expenses in such a manner that the obligations imposed by this Declaration must be met. Section 13. Trust Funds.. The portion of all regular assessments collec- ted by the Assocjation as reserves for future expenses, and the entire amount of all special assessments, shall be held by the Association in trust for the : Owners of all Lots, as their interests may appear. ; Section 14. Termination of the Association. In the event the Associa- tion is terminated or shall no Jonger continue to exist for any reason whatso- ever, the Boca Ridge Property Owners Association, Inc. will maintain all Common Areas and is hereby authorized to assess all Owners for the costs of such maintenance. ARTICLE VI GENERAL RESTRICTIVE ⚖️ [DECLARATION] COVENANTS Section 1. Applicability. The provisions of this Article VI shall be applicable to all Lots: situated within the Properties. -9- | === PAGE 11 === | ! | Section 2. Land Use. No Lot shall be used except for residential | purposes. No business, service repair or maintenance for the general public | or Owners shall be allowed on any Lot on the Common Areas at any time. | Temporary uses for model homes, parking lots, or sales offices shall be | permitted for the Developer. | Section 3. Change in Buildings. No Owner shall make or permit any | structural modification or alteration of any building except with the prior | written consent of the Architectural Control Board (hereinafter identified) or its successor and such consent may be withheld if, in the sole discretion of the party denying the same, it appears that such structural modification or } alteration would affect or in any manner endanger other dwelling units. No building shall be demolished or removed without the prior wirtten consent of the Architectural Control Board, and the prior written consent of the Owner | of the immediately adjoining building. The reconstruction shall be in the | same location on the property and shall not exceed the size of the original | construction. | | Section 4. Building Location. Buildings shall be located in conformance } with the Zoning Code of the County of Palm Beach, Florida and any specific | zoning approvals thereunder, or as originally constructed on a Lot by Devel- | oper. Whenever a variance or special exception as to building location or | other item has been granted by the authority designated to do so under the Zoning Code, said variance or special exception is hereby adopted as an amendment to this Section and any future variance or special exception as to building location or other item shall constitute an amendment of this Section. Section 5. Easements. Easements for drainage, installation and mainte- nance of utilities and for ingress and egress are reserved as shown on the | recorded plats of the Properties. Within these easements no structure, plant- | ing or other material may be placed or permitted to remain that will interfere | with vehicular traffic or prevent maintenance of utilities. Public utility companies servicing the Properties and the Association, and their successors and assigns, shall have a perpetual easement for the installation and mainte- nance of water lines, sprinkler lines, sanitary sewers, storm drains, gas } lines, electric and telephone lines, cables and conduits, including television cables and conduits and such other installations as may be required or neces- sary to provide maintenance and utility services to the Lots or the Common Areas, under and through the utility easements as shown on the plats and under and through such portions of the rear of each Lot beyond the build- ings, as such buildings may from time to time be located: Any damage caused to pavement, driveways, drainage structures, sidewalks, other struc- tures, or landscaping in the installation and maintenance of such utilities shall be promptly restored and repaired by the utility whose installation or mainte- nance caused the damage. All utilities within the subdivisions, whether in streets, rights of way or utility easements, shall be installed and maintained underground, provided, however, that water and sewer treatment facilities and control panels for utilities may be installed and maintained above ground. Section 6. Nuisances. oxious or offensiv tivi all be carri on_upon any Lot, nor shall anythi e thereo j ecome an annoyance or nuisance to the neighborhood or an othe ot Owner n the event of any question as to what may be or become a nuisance ich whose decision shall be final. No weeds, underbrush or other unsightly growths shall be permitted to grow or remain upon any Lot, and no refuse pile or unsightly objects shall be allowed to be placed or suffered to remain anywhere thereon; and in the event that the Owner shall fail or refuse to keep the demised premises free of weeds, underbrush or refuse piles or other unsightly growths or objects, then the Association may enter upon said premises and remove the same at the expense of the Owner, and such entry shall not be deemed a trespass. All garbage or trash must be placed in designated trash receptacles. Pro- vided however, that any of the Properties not yet developed by Developer shall be maintained in a clean condition, but shall not be expected to be maintained in a manicured condition. ; | -10- | === PAGE 12 === t Section 7. Temporary Structures. No structure of a temporary char- acter, or trailer, tent, mobile home or recreational vehicle shall be permitted on any Lot either temporarily or permanently. No gas tank, gas container, or gas cylinder (except gas tanks, gas container or gas cylinders as placed by the Developer in connection with the installation of swimming pools or barbeques) shall be permitted to be placed on or about the outside of any house or-any ancillary building, and all gas tanks, gas containers and gas cylinders (except gas tanks, gas containers or gas cylinders as placed by the Developer in connection, with the installation of swimming pools or barbeques) shall be installed underground in every instance where gas is used. In the alternative, gas containers may be placed above ground if enclosed on all sides by a decorative safety wall approved by the Architectural Control Board referred to in Section 12 hereof. Section 8. Signs. No "for rent", “for sale" or other sign of any lind shall be displayed to the public view on the Properties. Section 9. Oil and Mining Operations. No oil drilling, oil development operations, oil refining, quarrying or mining operations of any kind shall be permitted’ upon or in the Properties nor shall oil wells, tanks, tunnels, min- eral excavations or shafts be permitted upon or in the Properties. No derrick or other structure designed for us in boring for oil or natural gas shall be erected, maintained or permitted upon any portion of the land subject to these ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions. Section 10. Pets, Livestock and Poultry. No animals, livestock, or poultry of any kind shall be raised, bred or kept on any Lot, except that dogs weighing less than thirty (30) pounds, cats, or other household pets } may be kept, subject to rules and regulations of the Association, provided } that they are not kept, bred or maintained for any commercial purpose, and provided that they do not become a nuisance or annoyance to any neighbor. No dogs or other pets shall be permitted to have excretions on any Lot, o anywhere else within the Properties except in locations designated by the Association in its rules and regulations. In no event shall an Owner or any other person allow a dog anywhere on the Properties unless carried or held on a leash not to exceed six (6) feet. | Section 11. Visibility at Intersections. No obstruction to visibility at | street intersections shall be permitted. Section 12. Architectural Control. No building, wall, fence, or other structure or improvement of any nature shall be erected, placed or altered on any Lot until] the construction plans and specifications and a plan showing the ; location of the structure and landscaping as may be required by. the Architec- | tural Control Board have approved in writing by the Architectural Control Board named below. Each building, wall, fence, or other structure or im- provement of any nature, together with the landscaping, shall be erected, placed or altered upon the premises only in accordance with the plans and . specifications and plot plan so approved. Refusal of approval of plans, specifications and plot plan, or any of them, may be based on any ground, . | including purely aesthetic grounds. Any change in the exterior appearance of any building, wall, fence, or other structure or improvements, and any change in the appearance of the landscaping, shall be deemed an alteration requiring approval. The Architectural Control Board, which shall consist of | three (3) members, who need not be members of the Association, shall have ‘ the power to promulgate such rules and regulations as its deems necessary to carry out the provisions and intent of this Paragraph. The initial rules and regulations of the Architectural Control Board are set forth on Exhibit "C" attached hereto and made a part hereof. The Architectural Control Board shall be composed of: Walter Ketay, Christopher Anderson and Susan Bush and the address of said Board shall be 9400 Glades Road, Boca Raton, Florida 33433. A majority of the Architectural Control Board may take any action the Board is empowered to take, may designate a representative to act for the Board, and may employ personnel and consultants to act for it. In the event of | death, disability or resignation of any member of the Board, the remaining members shall have full authority to designate a successor. The members of | the Board shall not be entitled to any compensation for services performed | -11- | === PAGE 13 === | pursuant to this Section. When all residential dwelling units proposed by the Developer to be constructed within the Properties have been conveyed to Owners, the members of the Architectural Control Board shall be designated by the directors of the Association. Section 13. Landscaping. The landscaping, including, without limita- tion, the trees, shrubs, lawns, flower beds, walkways and ground elevations, shall be maintained in accordance with this Declaration, as originally installed } by Developer, unless the prior approval for any substantial change is obtained from the Architectural Control Board. No tree or shrub, the trunk of which exceeds two (2) inches in diameter, shall be cut down, destroyed or removed from a Lot without the prior express written consent of the Architectural Control Board. No artificial grass, plants or other artificial vegetation shall be placed or maintained upon the exterior portion of any Lot, unless approved by the Architectural Control Board. Section 14. Commercial Trucks, Trailers, Campers and Boats. No trucks or commercial vehicles, campers, mobile homes, motor homes, boats, house trailers, boat trailers, or trailers of every other description shall be permitted to be parked or to be stored at any place on any Lot, except only during the periods of approved construction on said Lot, and except that j they may be stored within garages or behind patio walls if not visible from the streets. The term "commercial vehicle" shall include all automobiles, trucks and vehicular equipment including station wagons, which bear signs or shall be printed on the same of some reference to any commercial ‘undertaking or enterprise, or vehicles of more than: six (6) feet in height. This prohibi- } tion of parking shall not apply to temporary parking of trucks and commercial | vehicles, such as for pick-up, delivery, and the other commercial services. . If Developer shall elect to include a storage or parking area for such vehicles within the Properties, all such vehicles, boats, etc. must be stored within such area or within the garage located on a Lot. } Section 15. Fences. No fence, wall or other structure shall be erected in the front yard, back yard, or side yard setback areas, except as origin- | ally installed by Developer, and except any approved by the Architectural Control Board as above provided. Section 16. Garbage and Trash Disposal. No garbage, refuse, trash or | rubbish shall be deposited on any Lot except in a walled-in area; provided, however, that the requirements from time to time of the County of Palm Beach for disposal or collection shall be complied with. All equipment for the storage or disposal of such material shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. Section 17. No Drying Areas. No clothing, laundry or wash shall be | aired or dried on any portion of any Lot. Section 18. Buffer Zone. Developer may install landscaping and berms, where Developer, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. The areas in \ which said landscaping and berms are installed shall be owned and maintained by the Association and shall not be conveyed with any Lot within the Prop- . erties. No improvements or landscaping shall be permitted within said areas without the prior written consent of the Association. ; Section 19. Drainage. No changes in elevations of property subject to these ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions shall be made which will cause undue hardship to adjoining property with respect to natural runoff of rain water. | Section 20. Burial of Pipe and Tanks. No water pipe, gas pipe, sewer pipe, drainage pipe or storage tank shall be installed or maintained on the | Common Areas above the surface of the ground, except hoses and movable pipes used for irrigation purposes. | Section 21. Underground Wires. No lines or wires for communication or | the transmission of current shall be constructed, placed, or permitted to be | placed within the Common Areas unless the same shall be protected cables; any of said lines or wires which are not located in buildings shall be con- structed or placed and maintained underground. } ] | -12- } E === PAGE 14 === Section 22. Certain ⚖️ [DECLARATION] Restrictions, Rules and Regulations. The following ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions, rules and regulations shall be adhered to by each Owner, lessee, his guests and visitors: (a) All Owners and lessees of Lots in the Properties shall abide by this Declaration, the Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws and all Rules and Regulations as they are adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Owners shall, at all times, obey the rules and regulations and shall use their best efforts to see that they are faithfully observed by their families, guests, invitees, servants, lessees and persons over whom they exercise control and super- ; vision. In order to change or amend any Rule or Regulation or adopt new rules and regulations, the same must be approved by a majority of the Board of Directors. No vote of the membership shall be required. A change, amendment or adoption of a ruis cr regulation shall not require an amendment to the Declaration or the Bylaws. ARTICLE VII : SALES ACTIVITY AND DEVELOPER'S RIGHTS Until the Developer has completed, sold and conveyed all of the Lots within the Properties, neither the Owners, nor the Association nor their use of the Common Areas shall interfere with the completion of the contemplated improvements and the sale of Lots. The Developer (or its duly authorized agents or assigns) may make such use of the unsold Lots and the Common Areas as may facilitate such completion and sale including, but not limited to, the maintenance of sales offices for the showing of the property and display of signs, billboards, placards and visual promotional materials. The Developer shall have the right to use common parking spaces, if any, located on the Common Areas for prospective purchasers and such other parties as Developer determines. Developer reserves the inalienable right to complete the develop- ment of the Properties, including the Common Areas, notwithstanding that a Purchaser of any Lot has closed title to his Lot. ARTICLE VIII ENFORCEMENT OF ⚖️ [DECLARATION] RESTRICTIONS, ⚖️ [DECLARATION] COVENANTS, RULES AND REGULATIONS Section 1. Compliance by Owners. Every Owner shall comply with the ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions and ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants set forth herein and any and all rules and regu- { lations from time to time adopted by the Board of Directors of the Association. Section 2. Enforcement. Failure of the Owner to comply with such ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restrictions, ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenants, or rules and regulations shall be grounds for action which may include, without limitation, an action to recover sums due for damages, injunctive relief, or any combination thereof, including costs and attorneys' fees incurred in bringing such actions, and if necessary, costs and attorneys’ fees for appeallate review. The Association shall have the right to suspend voting rights and use of Common Areas (except the private streets, 5 sidewalks and driveways from time to time located on the Common Areas). Section 3. Fines. In addition to ali other remedies, in the sole discre- } tion of the Board of Directors, a fine or fines may be imposed upon an Owner for failure of an Owner, his family, guests, invitees, tenants, or employees to comply with any ⚖️ [DECLARATION] covenant, ⚖️ [DECLARATION] restriction, rule or regulation contained herein or promulgated pursuant hereto provided the following procedures are adhered to: (a) Notice: The Association shall notify the Owner of the infraction or infractions. Included in the notice shall be the date and time of the next Board of Directors meeting at which time the Owner shall be afforded the opportunity to present reasons why a fine or fines should not be imposed. | -13- k === PAGE 15 === (b) Hearing: The matter of noncompliance shall be presented to the Board of Directors at such meeting of the Board and the Board shall hear reasons why penalties should not be imposed. A written decision of the Board of Directors shall be furnished to the Owner no later than twenty-one (21) days after the conclusion of the said meeting of the Board. (cR Appeal: Any Owner aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Directors as to a noncompliance may file a written request with the Board for an appeal of such decision. Such written request must be filed within seven (7) days after the furnishing of such decision to the Owner charged with any matter of noncompliance. nN appeals committee shall be appointed by the Board within sevefh (7) days after the filing of such request for appeal consisting of three: (3) non-interested Members of the Association who are neither officers nor Board members. The said appeals committee will meet and file a written determination of the matter and serve copies on both the Board and the Owner. In no case shall the appeals committee's findings be exclusive of any other right either party may have; however, the Board may elect to review its decision in the light of the findings of the appeals committee. (d) Penalties: The Board of Directors may impose special assessments against the Lot owned by the Owner as follows: (1) First noncompliance or violation: a fine not in excess of Fifty ($50.00) Dollars. (ii) Second noncompliance or violation: a fine not is excess of One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars. (iii) Third noncompliance or violation: a fine not is excess of Two Hundred ($200.00) Dollars. Civ) Fourth and subsequent instances of noncompliance or violation: a fine not is excess of Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars. (v) Payment of Fines: Fines shall be paid no later than thirty (30) days after notice of the imposition or assessment thereof. (vi) Collection of Fines: Fines shall be treated as an assessment otherwise due to the Association. (vii) Application of Fines: All monies received from fines shall be allocated as determined by the Board of Directors. (viii) Non-exclusive Remedy: The imposition of fines pursuant hereto shall not be construed to be an exclusive right or | remedy, and the right to impose such fines shall exist in addition to all other rights and remedies.to which the Associa- , tion may be otherwise legally entitled; provided, however, that any fine paid by the offending Owner shall be deducted from or offset against any damages that the Association may other- wise be entitled to recover by law from such Owner. . ARTICLE IX TURNOVER Section 1. Time of Turnover. The turnover of the Association by the Developer shall occur at the time as specified in Article III Section 2 hereof. Section 2. Procedure of Calling Turnover Meeting. No more than forty~ five (45) days and no less than thirty (30) days prior to the turnover meet- ; ing, the Association shall notify in writing all Class A Members of the date of the turnover meeting and purpose of it, which is the election of a new Board | of Directors of the Association. | -14- | . k 